ACCOU

OPENING FORM (Individual)

For Bank Use Only

Date

Party ID

Customer ID

Account Number

Manager,
Branch/Uposhakha
IFIC Bank PLC

Dear Sir/Madam,
I/we am/are applying to open an account in your Branch/ Uposhakha. All information required to
Account Opening is given below:

A. Account Related Information

Account Title (BLOCK LETTER)

Account Title (Bengali)

Type of Account [Aamar [19010] [59785 [7] Current [EF] FC [1 Others (specify)_________________

Currency [290 [059 11585171508. [JPY | Nature of Account | [F] Individual [F] Joint

Initial Deposit (In Figure) Initial Deposit (In Words)

Other Facilities Debit Card SMS Alert FIC Aamar Bank (Digital Banking) E-Statement Facility
Cheque Book INumber of Cheque Leaves: __--

B: Personal Information

Mobile Number দল

Account Holder's Name

(BLOCK LETTER)

Account Holder’s Name (Bengali)

Date of Birth Gender oO Male oO Female Oo Third Gender

Father’s Name

Mother’s Name

Spouse's Name

Nationality = Residential Status Resident Oo Non-Resident

(Passport copy with Visa must be (For Non-Resident Status, Guidelines for Foreign Exchange
obtained for foreign nationals) Transactions directives to be followed by the Bank)
Monthly Income Profession (Details)

Source of Fund TIN (lf available)

Present Address

Permanent Address

Contact/Mailing Address

National ID No.

Account Holder's or

Identity Document Passport Birth Certificate Driving License Employee ID Student ID
Identity Document Number

Introducer’s Name

, . Account No. of Introducer
Introducer’s Information

(Applicable if account holder or
doesn’t have NID)

NID Number of Introducer

17000010915 Signature | Date

Se


jominee Information

I/We, nominate the following person(s) to receive/draw the balance held in my/our account after my/our death. I/We reserve the right to cancel
or change this nomination at any time. I/We hereby accord my/our consent that the bank shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to make
payment as per my/our instruction.

Name of the Nominee

Address
Percentage
Relationship with A/C Holder
Date of Birth
. NID Passport Birth Certificate Driving License
9) Dreceurarsin: Employee ID Student ID

identity Document Number

the nominee remains minor during settlement of the deposit amount after my/our death, I/We hereby authorize the following person to receive/draw the amount as per Bank Company Act, 1991 section 103(2),

Name of Authorized Person Relationship with Nominee

Permanent Address

identity Document NID Passport Birth Certificate Driving License Employee ID Student ID
identity Document Number
Are you a US resident? [7] Do you hold a US Permanent Resident Green Card? [1] [7]
FATCA Declaration Are you a US citizen? L | Do you have a US residence address? [7]
Do you have a US correspondence address or a US telephone number? [ |
US Social Security Number

Hereby confirm the information provided above is true, accurate & complete. Subject to applicable laws, | hereby give consent to IFIC Bank PLC or any of its affiliates (including branches) (collectively ‘The
Bank’) to share my information with domestic or overseas regulators, or tax authorities or other concerned authorities where necessary to establish my tax liability in any jurisdiction, Where required by
domestic or overseas regulator or tax authorities, | consent and agree that the bank may withhold, and pay out, from my account(s) such amounts as may be required according to applicable laws, regulations,
agreements with regulators or authorities and directives. | agree and undertake to notify the bank within 30 calendar days if there is a change in any information which have been provided to the bank.

D. Declaration & Signature

\/We, hereby am/are declaring that, the above information is true. I/We are ready to provide further Information/documents as per requirement of IFIC Bank PLC

1st Applicant signature 2™ Applicant signature 3 Applicant signature
|
518
S| a
Y| Gc
নত 3/2
3 23
a =
@ |:
3 ৪
2 =| ¢ Le
শে 51] o 6
ও 275 Ez
=
= OL ত্র
2
£ a
s >| ছ 1 oO
< প্রা
§ 4 els
# O08
5 4
9 9 2
5
লিক
2329 5 Name : Name : Name
8 3 8 হু © Customer ID: Customer ID: Customer ID:
</ 2<o |a MobileNo : MobileNo : Mobile No
E. For Bank (Branch/Uposhakha) Use Only
Industry Scale ID WLC Checked Yes No If Yes, WLC False Positive WLC Positive
Account Marketed By Bank Official By DSA N/A Sector Code
Name of Account Marketing Official/ DSA Employee ID/ DSA Code
Account Opening Officer Account Approving Officer
Name : Name
EID : EID
Date: Date


a
<> Fic

eon eee Branch/Uposhakha
© PROFILE FORM (Individual)
Confidential & To be filled by Bank Onl
Date |
Customer ID
Account Number
Name of Account
Type of Account O Aamar OShohoj OSavings OCurrent CFC (Others (please specify).

[7] Personal Account Transaction [] Loan/Deposit Scheme Payment 1 Foreign Remittance
O Salary O Savings O Investment [] Others (please specify)

Monthly Probable
Income

Purpose of Account Opening

Profession (Details)

Document(s) collected

Source of fund(s) in details টাটা

Collected document(s) verified Yes CINo | Has Actual beneficiary owner been selected? [7155 [71২০
(lf Yes, fll up the Beneficiary Owner form for each of the beneficial owner) CNot Applicable
Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs)/ If Answer is Yes,
Influential Persons (IPs): 7 .
(Head of international organizations or higher-level officials and [71155 ONo | Obtained approval from Senior Management? OYes CNo
their family members or close associates) [According to BFIU
গজ] Face to Face interview with the Customer? OYes [1০

The name of customer is listed or related to person or entity under relevant laws, regulations and circulars in the light of different UN security Council
Resolutions on suspicion of involvement in the financing of terrorism, terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction and listed under the Yes 1710
Government of Bangladesh to the list of persons or entities/organization banned, is found matched (personally or under entity)?

If the Answer, yes, disclose the details of action taken

Has the Present cubslices of the account Yes | tow itis verified? Electronic Physical Document Validated by
holder been verified? Verification Verification Introducer
Has the permanent address of the account Yes How it is verified? Electronic Physical Document Validated by
holder been verified? Verification Verification Introducer
Has the ০0914501175 2481555 of the Yes How itis verified? Electronic Physical Document Validated by
account holder been verified? Verification Verification Introducer
Name of Address Verifying Officer Employee ID
A CO Resident
Reason tia opening of Account of Type of Visa O Work
Non-residents and Foreigners Cl Other
Have Work Permit Letter & Permission *Passport copy for non-resident
Letter from competent authority been Yes | Bangladeshi & Passport copy with Validity till
obtained in case of account opening of No_ | Visa for foreigner must be obtained
Work Permit Holder?
Customer Identification
SI.No. | KYC Supporting Document Number (Where Applicable) Photocopy Obtained? Document Verified?
a. National ID Number 0 Yes [1০ 0 Yes [71০
b. Passport Number O Yes [1০ O Yes [11০
c. Birth Certificate Number 0 Yes [71০ 0 Yes CO No
d. Other documents 0 Yes [13০ [7155 [13০

চর...


এরি
=> Fic

panna nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn Branch/Uposhakha
Customer ID |
Account Number ]
Name of Account
Risk Type Comments
— Low (<15) O High (2 15)

Overall Score

If the risk is below 15, Customer can be decided as High Risk regarding the high-risk rating of Beneficial Owner by mentioning reason with subjective consideration.

Prepared by: (Account Opening Officer/Relationship Manager) Verified & Confirmed By: (BAMLCO)
Signature Signature
Name : Name :
EID: EID
Date : Date

Approving Officer for PEP/IP/High Official of International Organization

Name?

Signature EID

Date

Account and Customer Information Review and Update

Last date of account and customer information review & update:

Reviewing & Updating Officer
Name :

Signature EID

Date


a
= Fic

Branch/Uposhakha

TRANSACTION PROFILE

For Bank Use Only

Date

Customer ID

Account Number

Title of Account

Source of fund(s) in details

Inheritance/Gift/Return on Investment

Personal Account Loan/Deposit Scheme L Investment Foreign
Purpose of Account Opening Transaction Payment Remittance

Salary Savings Others (please specify).

Salary Own Business Commission Foreign Remittance

Others (please specify) _________________--_---

Deposits

Number of Deposit
(Monthly)

Total Amount
(Monthly)

Maximum Amount
(Per Transaction)

Cash Deposit (including online & ATM)

Deposit by Transfer/Instrument

Deposit by Foreign Inward Remittance

Deposit of Income from Export

Receive/Transfer from BO Account

Others (please specify)

Total Probable Deposit

0

9

Withdrawal

Number of Withdrawal
(Monthly)

Total Amount
(Monthly)

Maximum Amount
(Per Transaction)

Cash Withdrawal (Including online & ATM)

Payment by Transfer/Instrument

Payment for Foreign Outward Remittance

Payment against Import

Deposit/Transfer to BO Account

Others (please specify)

Total Probable Withdrawal

0

9

For Branch/Uposhakha Use Only

Transaction Profile (TP) of Customer has been scrutinized as per instruction of BFIU

transaction profile:

Reason behind the changing/not changing of customer’s probable

Certifying Bank Officer

Name :

EID

Date

চা...


ya
=> Fic

Branch/Uposhakha

1. Type of On-Boarding Score 4. Product and Channel Risk Score
Branch Manager/Relationship Manager 2 Type of Product
Sales Representative 3 Savings account 1
Walk-in 3 Current account 4
Internet/Non-Face to Face 5 FDR 3
2. Geographic Risks Deposit Scheme up to 12 lacs 1
Client is- Deposit Scheme above 12 lacs 3
Resident Bangladeshi 1 FC account 5
Non-resident Bangladeshi 2 S.N.D. 3
Foreign Citizen 3 R.FC.D. 5
For Foreigners, 5. Business and Activity Risk
Does the client's country of citizenship feature in (a)Business (Please pick Applicable from Annexure and put the
FATF/EU/OFAC/UN Black List/Grey List? relevant score in the next column)
No 1 (b)Profession (Please pick Applicable from Annexure and put the
Yes 5 relevant score in the next column)
3. Relationship Risks 6. Transactional Risks
Is the client a PEPs/IPs/Chief or High Official of What is the client's Average Yearly
International Organization, as per BFIU Circular? Transactions Worth? Individual_| Institution
No ০ <BDT 1 million 1 ০
Yes 5 From BDT 1 million to 5 million 2 1
Is the client's family/close associates related to PEPs/IPs/Chief From BDT 5 million to 50 million (5 crores) 3 2
or High Official of International Organization? More than BDT 50 million (5 crores) 5 4
No ০ 7. Transparency Risk
Yes 5 Does the client has Provided a credible source of funds?
No 5
Yes 1
Annexure: Select Business 0 ession
Client Business Score Client Business Score
Jeweler/Gold/Valuable Metals Business 5 Business Agent 3
Money Changer/Courier Service/Mobile Banking Agent 5 Thread/"Jhut" Merchant 3
Real Estate Developer/Agent 5 Transport Operator 3
Construction Projects Promoter/Contractor 5 Business (Medicine Manufacturer & Marketing) 3
Art and Antiquities Dealer 5 Cold Storage 3
Restaurant/Bar/Night Club/Parlor/Resident Hotel Business 5 Business (Advertisement) 3
Import/Export and Import/Export Agent 5 Service Provider 3
Manpower Export Business 5 Tobacco and Cigarettes Business 3
Firearms Business 5 Amusement Park/Entertainment Provider 3
Garments Business/Garments Accessories/Packaging/Buying House 5 Motor Parts Trader/Workshop. 3
Share/Stocks Dealer, Broker, Portfolio Manager, Merchant Banker 5 Poultry/Dairy/Fishing Firm 2
Software/Information and Technology Business 5 Agro Business/Rice Mill/Beverage 2
Off-Shore/Non-Resident Corporation 5 Small Business (Investment below BDT 5 million) 2
NGO/NPO 5 Computer/Mobile Phone Dealer 2
Film Production & Distribution Organization 5 Manufacturer (except, weapons) 2
Mobile Operator/Internet or Cable Operator 5 Others: (Please State Below and circle numerical score as needed)
Land/House Broker 5 1.2..3.4..5
Insurance/Brokerage Agency 5 Client Profession Score
Religious Org/Institution & Educational Institution Pilot/Flight Attendant 5
| Trustee 5
Business (Petrol Pump/CNG Station) 5 Professional (Journalist, Lawyer, Doctor, Engineer, CA etc. 4
Software Business S__| Director (Private/Public Limited Company) 4
Ship Breaking Business 5 High Official of Multinational Company (MNC) 4
Bank/Leasing/Finance Company 4 Homemaker 4
Business (Indenting) 4 Information Technology (IT) sector employee 4
Business (Outsourcing) 4 Athlete/Media Celebrity/Producer/Director 4
Law Firm/Engineering Firm/Consultancy Firm 4 Freelance Software Developer 4
Government service 3
Fuel & Power Production Company 4 Landlord/Homeowner 3
Print & Electronic Media 4 Private Service: Managerial 3
Chain Store/Shopping Mall 4 Teacher (Public/Private/Autonomous Educational Institution) 2
Travel Agent/Tourism Company 4 Private Sector Employee 2
Merchant with over BDT 10 million invested in business 4 Self-employed Professional 2
Freight/Shipping/Cargo Agent/C&F Agent 4 37127 2
Automobiles business (New or Reconditioned) 4 Farmer/Fisherman/Laborer 1
Leather/Leather goods Business 4 Others: (Please State Below and circle numerical score as needed)
Construction Materials Trader 4 1.2.3.4.5

— উর


এটি
টি Fic

__ Branch/Uposhakha

IFIC Bank Account Opening

Account Number

These terms and conditions for Accounts at Bank branches in Bangladesh are
deemed to supplement and/or modify, and in the event of
inconsistency, prevail over the general account conditions of IFIC Bank PLC.

A. ACCOUNT OPERATING TERMS

1 Proper identification in the form of valid document will be required
before the Bank opens any account in its sole discretion, which will be
independently verified by the Bank. Upon any non-verification or if
something is found wrong/mismatched, Bank in its sole discretion has
the right to stop the transaction till clearance of ambiguity, debit block,
suspension of operation of account or close the account. Each account
will be allotted a distinctive number, which should be quoted in all
correspondence with the Bank relating to the Account.

2. The Account shall be subject to the applicable laws of the Government of
Bangladesh and the prevailing rules, regulations and directives of the
Bangladesh Bank, as may be revised, from time to time.

3. In the event, at any time, an Account is opened with incomplete
documents or information, the Bank may, at its sole discretion, restrict
the operation of such Account till such time that all the required
information and/or documentation is provided to the Bank.

4. Initially at Branch level, all accounts are opened on the basis of initial
scrutiny and shall remain blocked for a debit transaction, till the time of
its final scrutiny and completion of all the formalities and due approvals
are in place.

5. Current Account

Current Account can be opened by individuals, sole proprietorship
concerns, partnership firms, private/public limited companies,
associations, clubs, societies, trusts or other institutions, upon being
introduced in a manner satisfactory to the bank (IFIC Bank PLC.
The account can be opened either singly or jointly; with one or more
persons. A joint account can be operated either jointly or severally as
arranged with the Bank. The arrangement decided upon with also hold for
the survivor(s). The account holder can also authorize persons to operate
an account on his behalf by providing a power of attorney/mandate.

5.1 Withdrawals: Cash withdrawals should only be made on the printed
cheque forms supplied by the Bank. The account should not be
overdrawn nor should cheques be drawn against funds in course of
realization unless special arrangements have been made with the Bank.

6. Savings Account

A Savings Account may be opened by any person or persons properly
introduced and approved by the Bank. Savings Accounts can also be
opened by non-profit making Trusts, associations, clubs, societies, or
other institutions, upon being introduced in a manner satisfactory to the
bank (IFIC Bank Limited).

6.1 Withdrawals: Cash withdrawals over the counter should only be made on
the printed cheque forms supplied by the Bank. No overdrafts are allowed
on Savings Accounts. Cheque should not be drawn against funds in course
of realization unless special arrangements have been made with the Bank.

7. Deposits Survivor

The initial minimum deposit to open an account is as per our current Tariff.
Average minimum balance as per our current Tariff should always be
maintained, failing which a service charge will be levied. The Bank reserves
the right to close at any time any account in which the minimum balance is
not maintained, without further notification to the account holder.

8. Closure of the Account

When an account is closed either by the constituents or by the Bank, the
constituent is required to return all the unused cheques and cards if any
to the Bank. A charge as per our prevailing Tariff will be recovered from
an account holder who closes an account. The Bank reserves
unequivocal right to close any unsatisfactory account as decided by the
Bank at its absolute discretion.

9. Minor’s Account

An account may be opened on behalf of a minor by his/her natural
guardian or by a guardian appointed by a Court of Competent
Jurisdiction. Upon the minors attaining majority, the right of the guardian
to operate the account shall cease and only balance in the account will be
deemed to belong exclusively to the hitherto minor who has attained
majority unless he/she confirms his/her intention to continue the
account, further operations cannot be allowed.

10. Cheque Books

10.1 Anapplication for a cheque book ona Savings/Current Account must be
made on the Bank's requisition slip, duly signed by the account holder(s).
Cheque Book will not be issued to a customer until and unless all the
documentation considered necessary by the Bank has been provided by
the account(s) holder and duly obtained by the Bank. For issuance of each
cheque book, the Bank will realize applicable charge. It is the
responsibility of the account holder(s) to ensure that the cheques in their
possession issued by the Bank should be kept in a secured place at all
times.

10.2. The Bank reserves the right to refuse issuance of cheque books on such
accounts which are not maintained satisfactory and also when an
excessive number of cheques from the previous cheque book remain
unused.

10.3. The customers should comply with the conditions as printed on the
inside of the front cover of the issued cheque book.

10.4. All alteration on a cheque should be authenticated by the drawer’s full
signature; otherwise, payment of the cheque may be refused.

10.5. The amount of a cheque must be stated in both words and figures.

10.6. Account holders should exercise care when drawing cheques and should
not draw cheques by any means which may enable a cheque to be altered
ina manner which is not readily detectable.

10.7. The cheque will be returned if the drawer's signature differs from that on
record at the Bank. The same style and mode of signature as per
specimen given to Bank must be adhered to.

10.8. A charge as per our prevailing Tariff will be recovered for recording stop
payment.

10.9. When new cheque books are delivered to the customer by post it will be
according to the address record kept by the Bank (or by such other
means as determined by the Bank). The Bank assumes no responsibility
for any delay or loss caused by any mode of forwarding.

10.10. The Bank reserves the right to dishonor cheque(s) on reasonable
ground. In the event of a cheque being returned, the Bank may realize a
penalty charge for each presentation and return.

10.11 Undelivered cheque book will be retained by the Bank up to 90 (Ninety)
Days. After 90 days undelivered cheque book will be destroyed by the
Bank and necessary charges will be realized from the respective
customer account as per Bank's Tariff.

11. Stop Payment of The Cheque

I/we, the account holder(s), shall immediately notify the Bank if any of the
cheques issued to me/us, is lost or stolen. | understand that the Bank may
in its absolute discretion, accept from me any stop cheque instructions
(either orally or in writing) in cases where | have lost the relevant cheque
or, in other circumstances in which it shall be allowed by law and agreed by
the Bank. Should the Bank accept any such instruction from me or from
some other person purporting to be me?. | hereby undertake to indemnify
the Bank against any loss, damage, cost (including any legal cost) or
demand incurred by it as a result of, or in connection therewith. A charge
as per our prevailing tariff will be recovered for recording stop order.

12. Fraud & Forgery Due to Payment of Cheque

The customer must at all times exercise due care to prevent cheque from
being altered or forged in a manner which may facilitate fraud. In such
events, the Bank is not responsible for any loss suffered by the customer or
any other person. Any loss or misuse of the cheques must be immediately
reported to the Bank and confirmed in writing without any delay.

13. Positive Pay

As per instruction of Bangladesh Bank on Positive Pay for clearing cheque,
the account holder must inform the Bank (IFIC Bank Ltd.) in writing or
through Contact Center after issuance of a cheque for the amount one lac
and above. Otherwise, the Bank may return the cheque if presented
through BACH at the risk and responsibility of the account holder(s).

14. Collection of Cheque/Draft/Pay Orders

Bank will refuse to accept an instrument for deposit through a collection
or internal transfer if the payee’s name is not identical to the name of the
customer in the Bank's record. The Bank acts as the collection agent and
assumes no responsibility for the realization of any instrument deposited
with the Bank for collection. Thus, proceeds of the cheques or other
instruments deposited are not available for withdrawal until collected by
the Bank.

7


15. Reversal of Wrongly Credited Amount

The Bank reserves the right to debit any account that may have been
inadvertently credited with an item/transaction subsequently unpaid on
collection or detected to be the wrong entry without giving any
information to the customer.

16. Dormancy and Unclaimed Amount

16.1 Savings account being inoperative for two year will be marked as
Dormant status.

16.2 (As per Clause 35 of Banking Company Act 1991) Account will be
transferred to unclaimed account status after 10 (ten) years if there has
been no transaction in the said account by the customer.

16.3 No customers’-initiated transaction is allowed in the Dormant account
unless the account holder(s) apply to IFIC in writing to regularize the
status of an account.

17. Joint Account

17.1 Each of us (if more than one) hereby authorize and empowers each other
to endorse for deposit and to deposit with the Bank any and all cheques,
notes or other instruments for the payment of money, payable to or
purporting to belong to anyone or all of us and if any such instruments be
received by the Bank without having been so endorsed then the Bank is
hereby authorized to endorse any such instrument on behalf of us and to
credit the same to the account.

17.2 Any overdraft or other obligations incurred on the account or otherwise
shall be the joint and several liability of each and every joint account
holder. In the event of the death or legal disability of any of the individuals
constituting the account holder, the other individual(s) shall immediately
(but in any event not later than ten (10) days after such death or disability)
and before effecting any transactions in this account, notify the bank of
such death or legal disability.

17.3 Each of us authorize the Bank to hold, on the death of either of us, any
credit balance on my account in our joint name and any securities deeds,
boxes and parcels and their contents and property of any description
held in our joint names, to the order of the survivor (if any). Each of us
hereby agrees that the instruction given by us in the mandate are to
remain in force until written revocations thereof by us or either of us.

17.4 Inthe event that there is no survivor or nominee, that account will then be
frozen until the legal successor to the deceased or disabled individual is
appointed/determined by the relevant court or department.

18. Short Notice Deposit

7 days prior notice is required to withdraw fund. The rate of interest on
short notice deposit is subject to change from time to time.

19. Hold Mail Service

19.1 If | request this service, the Bank will hold all mails, addressed to me for a
maximum period of three (3) months from receipt and such mail will be
deemed to have been received by me. | will collect any mail so held
personally or through an authorized person, unless | advise you to the
contrary in writing. The Bank is authorized to charge a reasonable fee for
this service and to hold, open and/or handle all such mails in such manner
as the Banks deems fit. If fails to collect any such mails the Bank may
destroy it in accordance with Bank's policy and in doing so the Bank shall
be discharged from all responsibilities or liabilities.

19.2 Notwithstanding that until | have collected any mail, although | may not
have the knowledge of the contents of the mail which may have legal
consequences or affect my rights with the Bank, | shall bear the risk of
any such consequences.

19.3 Myignorance of the content of any mail being held by the Bank is not, and
will not, be a defense to the Bank's claims for all purposes and in all courts
or law whether before or after the termination of my account relationship
with the Bank.

20. Holiday Processing

Any transaction on a Bank Holiday or after Business Hours of the Bank
shall be shown in the Account, at the sole discretion of the Bank, as
having taken place on the succeeding Working Day and not the actual
day of the transaction and all deductions/accretions on such amount
shall be deducted/accrued as of such Working Day. Bank shall not be
responsible for any loss of interest or exchange rate or liability
incurred/suffered by the Customer including but limited to return of
cheques, loss of interest arising due to such transaction being not shown
on the day the same actually occurred. C

21. Communications

21.1 The Customer shall inform the Bank in writing about any change in the
Customer's address or residential status as and when such changes take
place.

21.2 The Customer understands, acknowledges and accepts the
communication sent via facsimile machines, internet, diskettes or any
other method over public lines, is not encrypted, and that these
transmission methods are not necessarily secure mean of transmission
and delivery of information, and that there are associate risks, including
of breach of confidentiality, possible unauthorized alteration and/ or
unauthorized use, and failure of communication. The Customer agrees to
exempt the Bank from any misuse of communication, and to hold the
Bank harmless for any cost or loss that the Customer may incur due to
the same and any error, delay or problem in transmission or otherwise.

22. Confidentiality

Whilst the Bank maintains strict confidentiality in all matters relating to
my account(s) and business, | hereby authorize the Bank (and/or/any of
its officers of employees) to disclose any information concerning me., my
business, my accounts held with the Bank or another Group Member, or
my relationship with the Bank or another Group Member, to any of the
following. (a) any office or branch of the Bank or another Group Member;
(b) any agent, contractor or third party service provider, or any
professional advisor of the Bank or another Group Member; (c) any
regulatory, supervisory, governmental or quasi-governmental authority
with jurisdiction over the Bank or another Group Member; (d) any person
to whom the Bank is required or authorized by law or court order to make
such discloser, (6) any person who is under a duty of confidentiality to the
Bank; (f) any Bank or financial institution with which | have dealings,
regardless of whether the recipient in each case is located in Bangladesh
or in another country, and regardless of whether such information will,
following disclosure be held, processed used or disclosed by such
recipient in Bangladesh or another country.

23. Waiver

No forbearance, negligence or waiver by the Bank in the enforcement of
any of these terms and conditions shall prejudice the Bank's right
thereafter to strictly enforce the same. No waiver by the Bank shall be
effective unless it is in writing.

24. Variations

The Bank may amend these terms and conditions at any time by not less
than fourteen (14) day notice to me specifying the effective date of the
amendment. If | use my Banking facilities after the effective date of the
amendment, | shall be deemed to have received notice of the
amendment and to have decided to continue to use the Banking facilities
upon the revised terms and conditions. | further acknowledge that in the
event of any changes being communicated to me, the Bank is not obliged
to obtain my signature for receipt of such communication.

25. Notice

Save as otherwise provided in these terms and conditions, any demand or
communication made by the Bank under these terms and conditions shall
be in writing or in official mail and made at the address given by me (or such
other addresses as | shall notify the Bank from time to time) and, if posted,
shall be deemed to have been served on me on the date of posting.

B. GOVERNING LAW, REGULATION AND RULES

The terms and conditions shall apply to such accounts and service
offered by the Bank to its customers from time to time and herein shall
be governed by the Laws, rules, and regulations of the Central Bank of
Bangladesh, Government of Bangladesh and the Bank's policies and
practices. Any person opening an account shall be deemed to have read,
understood and accept the terms and conditions herein governing the
account. IFIC Bank Limited may, at any time, as it deems necessary, add
to, delete from or change these terms and conditions. Bank will attempt,
but is not required to provide prior notice of such changes; notice, if
provided by ordinary mail, shall be deemed sufficient.

1 Exchange of Information

It is the Bank's policy to maintain confidentiality of customer's
information. However, the Laws and regulations in Bangladesh may
require disclosure of customer information to Government Organization
and/or regulatory bodies such as the Central Bank. The Bank also
considers sharing customer information in a way that it considers most
suitable with other Organizations to improve Banking service and protect
the interest of the Bank. The customer authorizes the Bank to disclose or
share information at the sole discretion of the Bank and indemnifies the
Bank from any accidental disclosure of information during the process of
printing, transportation and filing of information.

2. Fees

The Bank shall be entitled without notice to levy or impose all customary
Banking and other charges and expenses including collection fees and
legal expenses in respect of any account or in respect of any other
Banking facilities provided to the customer by the Bank and to debit the
relevant account(s). Such charges are not refundable upon termination of
any or all of a customer's account.

3. Credits to the Account

The Bank acts only as of the collection agent and assumes no
responsibility for the realization on any item any reason deposited with
the Bank for collection. The proceeds of cheques or other instruments
deposited are not available for withdrawal until collected by the Bank.
The Bank reserves the right to debit any account with charges and
interests (if any) that may have been inadvertently credited with an item
subsequently unpaid on collection for any reason.

4. Fund Transfer

The bank will attempt to execute the fund transfer instructions as
specified by the customer and reserves the right to route the fund
transfer via any means available in order to execute the transfer
instructions. Neither the bank nor subsequent banks in the transfer
process will necessarily investigate discrepancies between names and
identity or account numbers and may execute instructions on the basis
of the numbers given in the instructions even if such number identifies a
person different from the named bank or beneficiary.


5.

8.
81
8.2

8.3

৪.4

8.5

8.5

87

10.

11.

12.

Force Majeure/Technical Problem

The Bank will not be liable for any loss or damage if it is unable to provide
services to the customer due to an act of God, catastrophe, war, civil or
industrial disturbance, electrical, mechanical, communications or
computer failure or any other cause beyond Bank's control and that
cannot be overcome by reasonable diligence and without the unusual
expense.

Issue and Safety of Cheques

Cheques will only be issued to a customer when all documentation
considered necessary by the Bank has been obtained. It is the
responsibility of the account holder to ensure that cheques held in their
possession are kept safely. The customer must at all-time exercise due
care to prevent cheques, payment orders and other order or instruments
from being altered or forged in a manner which may facilitate fraud. In
such events, the Bank is not responsible for any loss suffered by the
customer or any other person. Any loss or misuse of the cheques or
orders or other instruments must be immediately reported to the Bank
and confirmed in writing without any delay.

Minimum Balance and Interest Payment

The minimum balance as prescribed from time to time is required to be
maintained in current, savings and STD account. The Bank reserves the
right to change the minimum balance requirement and/or to close such
account with prior notice if the balance falls below this amount. For
interest-bearing accounts, the rate of interest may be changed from time
to time. Any change in interest rate will be displayed in the branches.

Interest on Account
No interest will be payable on Current Account.

Interest on Savings Account will be payable on Monthly Minimum
Balance at the prescribed rate. No interest is payable (for the relative
month) if a customer withdraws more than twice in a week from his/her
account or if a customer withdraws more than 25% of his/her balance at
a time (by a single cheque). Interest will be credited to Party's account on
a half-yearly basis.

Interest on Short-Term Deposit will be payable on a daily product basis at
prescribed rate.

Interest on Fixed Deposit or any other special deposit will be payable at
prescribed rate for specific period of time.

No interest will be paid on savings/SND account if the account is closed
within 3 (three) months from the last date of half-yearly/annual closing.
The account which is closed after three months from end
June/December, interest will be allowed for the number of months it
remains with the Bank. No interest will be paid for the fractional period
(this is not applicable for Govt./Corporation/Autonomous bodies).

The rate of any interest payable on any Account may be displayed by the
Bank at its various branches in Bangladesh and further, I/We accept that
this may be subject to change without notice to me/us. Interest of any
Account will accrue in arrears from day to day in or, as otherwise
determined by the Bank (in its absolute discretion), and be credited by
the Bank to the relevant Account(s).

The Bank may, as its sole discretion, allow pre-mature withdrawal of fixed
deposits. I/we accept that, such pre-mature withdrawals will be subject
to levy or penalties and charges, as the Bank may determine and these
may be subject to change without notice to me/us from time to time.

Overdrafts

The customer hereby authorizes Bank to charges interest on the amount
of any overdraft or its account during the continuance of such overdraft
at the prevailing rate charged on lending by the Bank during the period of
the overdraft unless otherwise agreed. Unless otherwise agreed to in
writing, Bank is under no obligation to permit any overdraft or to continue
to permit any overdraft and may any time require payment of an

outstanding overdraft allowed temporarily during the course of business.

Suspicious Transactions

The Bank may refuse to process any transaction on any account of the
customer if the Bank suspects fraud or illegality therein. The decision of
the Bank with regards to whether the transaction is or is likely to involve
a fraud or irregularity shall be final and conclusive and binding on the
customer.

Closure of Accounts

The Bank reserves the right to close any account or related service
without giving prior notice if the conduct of the account is unsatisfactory
in the opinion of the Bank or for any other reason(s) whatsoever. The
Bank shall pay to the customer all available and final collected balance
after all Banks have been recovered/realized at the time of closure of the
account.

General Indemnification

Customer hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the Bank, its successors,
assigns, correspondents, directors, officers, employees and agents
harmless from and against all loss, costs, damages, expenses (including
legal fees) and liability for any claim or demand based in whole or part of
an action or omission of Bank resulting from a request, direction,
instruction, from the customer, including claims or demands expressly
based on the alleged negligence of the Bank.

13. Nominee

13.1. The account holder for each account can appoint nominee as per section
103 of the Bank Companies Act.

13.2 Nomination will be cancelled if the nominee dies in the lifetime of the
account holder. The account holder in such cases will advise in writing a
new nominee.

13.3 The account holder, with written instruction, may change the nominee
any time before the maturity of the account

13.4 In the event of account holder's death, his/her nominee will not be
allowed to continue the account and the amount deposited prior to the
death of the account holder shall be paid to the nominee after proper
identification and upon obtaining such documents as the bank may
require.

13.5 Account holder can name and authorize any competent person to
represent the nominee, so that such person can withdraw money from
the account of the customer on behalf of nominee in case nominee is a
minor at the time of death of the customer and the bank shall be
discharged from its liberty upon making payment to such person.

13.6 In case where there is no nominee the Succession Certificate from the
appropriate court will be required for releasing the balance amount after
the death of the account holder.

14. Set-Off and Consolidation Rights

The Bank may at any time and from time to time without notice combines
all or any of my accounts and liabilities with it in Bangladesh or elsewhere,
whether singly or jointly with any other person or set off all or any money
standing to the credit of such accounts including my deposits with the
Bank (whether matured or not) towards satisfaction of any of my
liabilities to the bank in Bangladesh or elsewhere whether as principal or
actual or contingent, primary or collateral, singly or jointly, with any other
person and the bank may affect any necessary currency conversion, at
the Bank own rate of exchange that prevailing.

DEBIT CARD

1 The Bank may it absolute discretion issue card(s) to me/us; A card is the
property of the Bank and I/we will surrender it unconditionally at the time
of closing my account(s) or upon demand by the Bank at any time.

I/we will immediately notify the Bank of the loss or theft of a card or of
unauthorized acquisition of the personal identification number relating
to it and shall accept full responsibility for all ATM transaction effected by
use of a card until such time as the Bank confirms to me that it has
receipt this notice.

3. The Bank's record of all ATM transactions effected by use of a card will be
conclusive and binding on me for all purposes. The amount stated on the
ATMscreen or printed on ATM screen or printed ATM inquiry slip shall not
be taken as conclusive of the state of my account with the Bank.

I/we will indemnify the Bank and keep it indemnified for any loss, damage,
costs (including legal costs) claims or demands arising in connection with
the misuse, loss or theft of any ATM card issued to me/us or, resulting
from any mechanical defect in or malfunction of, or insufficiency of funds
in the ATM.

5. The use of the Local Debit Card confined to Bangladesh only and
International Debit Card may be used anywhere in the world subject to
applicable charges. Use of the Local Debit Card outside Bangladesh shall
make the card liable for immediate cancellation and any other
appropriate action as stipulated by Bangladesh Bank or other regulatory
body. The cardholder will also be liable to clear all outstanding without
prejudice to any right, remedy or action against him/her, by the
Bangladesh Bank, the Bank, court or any regulatory agency.

6. The Bank shall be under no liability whatsoever to the cardholder in
respect of any loss or damage arising directly out of the refusal of any
merchant or member institution of Visa Card to honor or accept the card
or for any defect or deficiency in the goods or services supplied to the
cardholder

7. Fees and charges may be determined periodically by the Bank or other
Visa authorized acquirers without prior notice to the cardholder

I/we acknowledge that my/our use of Debit Card shall be governed by the
Bank's prevailing Terms and Conditions available in the Bank's website at
www.ificbank.com.bd and accept the same.

ATEMENT OF ACCOUNT (SOA)

1 The Bank shall send the statement of account as per frequency stipulated
by Bangladesh Bank and the Customer shall check the entries made
therein. Customer may notify any discrepancies in the statement of
account within 15 days from the date of issue, after which Bank's statement
will be considered final and conclusive, for all purposes whatsoever.

2. Statement of account shall not be sent to the Customer whose account
has been marked as dormant, as per directives of the Bangladesh Bank.
The Bank will take a due care to see that the credit and debit entries are
correctly recorded in the accounts of the account

3. Apart from mandatory provision of the statement of account (SOA), SOA
may be provided by the Bank, subject to charges, as applicable under its
schedule of Bank Charges, upon receipt of written request by the
customer/ account holder only.

N

চে

০০

9


4,111 0856 of the account holder, at his/her request, being registered for an
e-statement, the bank shall discontinue sending the mandatory
statement of account via post/courier and provide the e-statement
facility as per the frequency indicated.

5. _E-Statement

5.1 I/we fully understand the risk and accept that the Bank does not use
encrypted e-mail and generally, the internet is not encrypted and is not a
secure means of transmission of the information. It involves the risk of
unauthorized alteration, usages and disclosure of the information by the
parties;

5.2 I/we fully understand the risk and accept that transmission of the
information to a corporate ID involves the risks of the information to be
viewed, altered, used or disclosed to third parties, once authorized but
afterwards no more in the employment of the organization, in future. I/we
agree to indemnify the Bank and hold the Bank indemnified and harmless
from any and all costs, expenses, liabilities, loses, responsibilities,
whether direct or consequential, arising out or in connection with such
view, alteration, usage or disclosure of the information or otherwise
caused by using the internet as a means of transmission and also for any
error, delay or problem in transmission of the information.

5.3 That my/our legal representatives, executors, successors-in-interest and
assigned are bound by this E-statement Enrolment.

5.4. That this E-statement Enrolment shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of Bangladesh;

5.5 Electronic statement delivery will supersede hard copy statement
delivery (if any).

5.6 The “e-statement” means the statement of account sent through email
at the Designated Email Address provided / Registered by the
Customer/Account holder.

5.7 The Customer will provide his/her email address to the Bank for receiving
e-statement (“Designated Email Address”).

5.8 The Customer hereby unconditionally agrees to accept the e-statement
sent at the Designated Email Address. Any errors or exception noted in
the e-statement shall be reported to the Bank within 15 days on receipt
of e-statement, otherwise the same shall be considered as correct.

5.9 The e-statement will be electronically sent at the Customer's request
and at the entire risk and responsibility of the Customer.

5.10 The Customer shall use the e-statement or its printed version as
information for his personal record and shall not submit this for any legal
requirement or for submission to visa granting authorities or admission
statement of account from Branch.

€. 55 ALERT FACILITY

1 The Customer hereby subscribes to the SMS Alert Facility (“SMS Alert
Facility") of the Bank whereby the Customer shall receive short
messaging service alerts (“SMS Service”) on the Customer's Authorized
Mobile Number in the form of customized messages. The Customer shall
not be able to undertake any transaction through the SMS Alert Facility.
The SMS alerts shall only be sent to the mobile phone number which has
been specifically provided by the Customer for the purposes of these
clauses (“Authorized Mobile Number”).

2. The SMS alerts will be available to the Customer only if the Customer is
within the cellular service range of the particular cellular service provider
of the Customer. Charges will be realized half-yearly for SMS alert facility
as per the schedule of charges.

3. If the Customer suspects that there is an error in the information
contained in the SMS alert sent to him, he/she shall inform the same to
the Bank /Branch as soon as possible and the Bank/Branch shall
endeavor to correct the error, wherever possible on a best effort basis.

4. The Customer agrees that SMS Alert Facility provided to the Customer is
an additional facility for his / her convenience and is susceptible to delay,
error, omission and/or inaccuracy. The Customer shall not hold the Bank
liable for any loss, damages etc. that may be incurred/suffered by the
Customer on account of the SMS Alert Facility.

The application form must be sent directly to the Bank and not by
facsimile. The Bank will require 7 working days after receiving the SMS
Banking Application Form for activation of the service. In case of Bank
Account, the Bank will accept the application form signed by the
authorize signatories of the Account only (subject to signature
verification for PUSH service, the Bank will use the respective Mobile
Phone Operator's Text Mail Service (SMS) to send the financial
information related to customer's account on the following working day
after the statement has been generated. The PUSH service will be offered
free of charge. For PULL service the Account or Cardholder will be able to
obtain a range of financial information related to account by typing a
predefined keyword with a PIN as a message in the Mobile Phone and
sending this message to a prescribed SMS shortcode. For this service,
regular SMS charges of the respective Mobile Phone Operator will apply.
The Account or Cardholder is solely responsible to ensure the possession
of mobile disruption in SMS Banking Service due to any technical failure
on the part of the Bank/Mobile Phone Operator. SMS Banking shall remain
effective until otherwise advised in writing by the Account/Cardholder,

which should rich the Bank at least one week before the next statement is
due. The laws of Bangladesh govern these Terms and Conditions. The
Bank may revise and/or change any of the Terms & Conditions at any time
with notice to you, but doesn’t require any consent.

ও. CONTACT CENTER

1. I/we authorize the Bank (in its absolute discretion) to follow/act on my/
our oral or instruction by telephone (including any instructions required
by or, given by me/us, in relation to these Terms and Conditions unless
these terms and Conditions otherwise expressly stated to the contrary).

2. I/we shall not reveal my/our telephone Identification Number (TIN) to
anyone. My/our oral instruction(s) identified by my/our correct Bank
Account Number and TIN shall be deemed to be proper. Accordingly, the
Bank shall be entitled to rely on any such instructions. Should the Bank
accept any such instruction from me/us, or from some other person
purporting to be me/us, I/we hereby agree to indemnify the Bank against
any loss, damage, costs (including legal costs), or demands incurred by
the Bank as a result of or, in connection therewith.

3. The Bank may inits absolute discretion require that written confirmation
of my/our oral instruction(s) be received by it within such period as the
Bank may specify. Where any of the above accounts are opened by more
than one person any such one person shall be entitled to give any such
oral instructions and the Bank shall entitle to rely upon such instructions.

4. I/we acknowledge that my/our use of Call Center shall be governed by
the Bank’s prevailing Terms & Conditions available in the Bank's website
at www.ificbank.com.bd and accept the same.

1. IFIC AAMAR BANK

Use of IFIC Aamar Bank Service is subject to the following terms and
conditions which set out the general rights and obligations of the User(s)
and IFIC Bank Ltd in connection with the use of IFIC Aamar Bank.

For the purpose of this document, “Aamar Bank” or “Online
Banking/Mobile Banking” refers to the Aamar Bank services provided by
IFIC Bank Limited through the internet such as balance enquiry, bill
payment, fund transfer within the accounts of IFIC Bank Limited/Other
banks etc. or other services as may be made available by IFIC Bank
Limited from time to time.

“User”, “he/she” and/or “his/her” means IFIC Bank Limited's account
holder(s)/credit cardholder registered to use Online Banking/Mobile
Banking. 41610” means “We”, “us”, “IFIC Bank”, “IFIC Bank Limited”, a
company duly incorporated under the Companies Act 1994 and a scheduled
banking company licensed under the Banking Companies Act, 1991, having
its Head office at IFIC Tower, 61, Purana Paltan, Dhaka -1000; and its
branches or its assigns in respect of which the service will be available.

1 Application for IFIC Aamar Bank

11. Singly operated account holders, Joint account holders (operating in
either or survivor mode), or proprietorship accountholders may apply for
IFIC Aamar Bank. In case of Joint Accounts, transactions through DB, shall
be available if the mode of operation is indicated as ‘either or survivor’ or
‘anyone or survivor’. The User desirous of using the DB should either be
the account holder and sole signatory or authorized to act independently
in case of a joint account. For such joint accounts, User-ID and password
for DB will be issued against respective customer ID to the joint account
holders as per the mode of operations when requested. The other joint
account holders shall expressly agree with the arrangement and give their
consent on the application form for use of DB. In case of joint accounts
operated by more than one User, IFIC Bank shall act on the instruction
received first and any subsequent instruction shall be neglected. All
correspondence will be addressed to the first named person only. All
transactions arising from the use of DB in the joint account shall be
binding on all the joint account holders, jointly and severally.

1.2. The User shall apply to IFIC branches in the prescribed form and must
submit at his/her presence for use of IFIC Aamar Bank subject to the
terms and conditions stated herein including any other terms and
conditions as modified or inserted by IFIC Bank from time to time.

1.3. To perform Aamar Bank transactions, the customer will be required to
avail Mobile Token after activating Mobile Banking apps. Customer will
have the option to select Mobile Token to perform Aamar Bank
Transactions or he/she may choose none of these and in such cases
where customers do not choose Mobile Token, the customer shall avail
OTP (One Time Password) in his registered mobile.

14 IFIC Bank at its sole discretion may accept or reject any such
applications. Once the application is accepted by IFIC Bank, these Terms
& Conditions shall form the contract and govern the relationship
between the User and IFIC Bank in relation to use of Aamar Bank.

1.5 The User must need to use a unique mobile number for Aamar Bank
enrollment. S/he can provide e-mail (If any) for Aamar Bank purpose but
e-mail is optional.

1.6 Byapplying for Aamar Bank for the first time, the User acknowledges and
accepts these Terms & Conditions. Notwithstanding anything contained
herein, all Terms & Conditions pertaining to the accounts shall continue
to apply. In the event of any conflict between these Terms & Conditions
and the Rules and Regulations governing the User(s) account with IFIC,
these Terms and Conditions shall prevail with regard to IFIC Aamar Bank.

=x ee


2.2.

23.

24.

25.

2.6.

27.

2.8.

2.9.

2.10.

IFIC Aamar Bank Users Log in Access, Password & Security Procedures

IFIC will provide the User with unique User Identification Number (“User
ID") and a temporary Password in the first instance through SMS. The
User(s) hereby authorizes and instructs IFIC to email him/her the User ID
and Password relating to his/her access/log-in to the Aamar Bank Services
to the email address given in the application at his/her own risk and
responsibility. If the customer does not have any e-mail account then if he
loses his/her mobile phone, s/he will not receive any transaction alert until
SIM replacement. IFIC shall not be liable and responsible for the loss of his
mobile number where the user will receive the User ID and Password and
IFIC shall not be responsible and liable for share of User ID and Password.

The User shall log in to the Aamar Bank by using the User ID and
Password/PIN/Touch ID/Face ID (depends on the authentication method).
As a safety measure, the User shall immediately change Password upon
his/her first login. User is requested to change his/her Password
frequently thereafter to avoid any possible hacking, inherent risk or
misuse/fraudulent use of his/her account. In case of hacking/sharing of a
User ID and Password IFIC shall preserve the right to close the Online
Banking/Mobile Banking Service without prior consent from the User,
However, IFIC shall preserve the right to file a case against the User if it is
observed by IFIC that the User has/may any involvement with the incident.

The User acknowledges that the system generated Login ID (User ID) and the
Password shall act as User's authorized signature. This signature authorizes
and validates directions given just as an actual written signature does.

The User is therefore responsible for maintaining the confidentially and
secrecy of User ID and Password. User should not under any
circumstances disclose his/her User ID and/or Password to anyone,
including anyone claiming to represent the Bank or to someone giving
assistance on a technical helpdesk in connection with the service. It is
clearly understood that the Bank’s employees do not need Password for
any reason whatsoever. Bank shall not be held liable in any manner or in
any form whatsoever in case of any unauthorized or fraudulent use of the
User's account through Aamar Bank Services or for loss, misplacement
or fraudulent use of the User ID and Password.

Two Factor Authentication (2FA) device is the device where the Mobile
Banking Application is installed, which generates a random OTP (One Time
Password) that acts as a second level of authentication (depends on the
authentication method). After registering for IFIC Bank Aamar Bank, the
customer will need the 2FA Device to login to their Aamar Bank accounts
for secured and successful transactions. In these particular and other
associated documents, we are referring 2FA Device as “Mobile Token”. The
User shall have to use the OTP generated by the Mobile Token from mobile
banking to conduct his/her Aamar Bank during that session. User will solely
be responsible for bearing the security of his/her own mobile Token and
registered email. IFIC Bank Limited shall not liable and responsible for any
compromise or hacking of the customer's computer, SMS or the device
through which the OTP (One Time Password) will be generated. Customers
are requested to check back the precautionary notes shared below.

If the User gives or shares his/her User ID, Account Password or OTP to
anyone or fails to safeguard its secrecy, he/she does so at his/her own
risk because anyone with a User ID and Password will have access to
his/her accounts.

If the User's password is lost or stolen, or is known by another individual,
the user should change the password first but if failed he/she must notify
IFIC through calling in Contact Center to deactivate the Online
Banking/Mobile Banking account and submit a written application at any
nearest IFIC Service Outlet. IFIC upon receipt of the written request from
the User shall at the earliest, stop the operation of the Aamar Bank
Services of the respective User account. If the Bank receives any
information verbally or in written form from anyone including the user,
Bank may immediately suspend the services in good faith for the safety
and security of the user

The User agrees and acknowledges that IFIC shall in no way be held
responsible or liable if the User incurs any loss as a result of information
disclosure to any third party by the user him/herself regarding his
Account(s) or carrying the instruction of the User pursuant to the access
of the Aamar Bank and the User shall fully indemnify and hold harmless
IFIC in respect of the same.

User hereby acknowledges and understands the inherent risk of using
the Internet and availing the Aamar Bank Services and accordingly shall
take all necessary precautions at his/her end to safeguard him/her from
such risk. Bank shall not be held liable in any form whatsoever if the User
suffers any loss or damages due to such inherent risk of internet and
Aamar Bank Services unless such loss or damage is caused due to willful
negligence of the Bank.

Transactions on Behalf of Corporate or Joint Customers

Corporate or joint customers acknowledge, that a person (whether the
System Administrator, other users appointed by us on the instructions of
such corporate or joint customers or by the System Administrator, if any,
or any authorized or unauthorized third party) who provides the IFIC
Password/PIN or the Security Number/s and/or the Mobile Token/PIN, as
applicable, of a corporate customer or joint customers when using the
Aamar Bank channels (Online & Mobile) shall always be entitled to use the
Channels (as if it were a user who is using the Channels-Online & Mobile),
even though we had not been separately notified of this. Furthermore,
user understands and accepts that corporate customers are responsible,
and joint customers are jointly and severally responsible, for all
transactions carried out by the person providing the IFIC Password/PIN
or the Security Number/s or the IFIC Mobile Token/PIN, as applicable.

2.11,

3.2.

3.3

41
42

43

44

45

46

47

5.2.

6.2.

6.3.

6.4.

User must observe any user instructions that we may notify him/her from
time to time. In future, the user instructions may change. If this happens,
we will inform the user accordingly, as stated herein, and the user must
observe any new user instructions that we inform the user about.

User needs to call 16255 to reset password, lock or change account to
non-transactional mode of Aamar Bank status. Nonresident User needs
to call +880 9666716255.

Service Software & Hardware Requirements

User is solely responsible for the maintenance, installations and
operation of User's computer and for the software used in accessing
Aamar Bank.

IFIC shall not be held responsible if the Aamar Bank System does not
work properly or the service is interrupted due to failure of electronic or
mechanical equipment or communication lines, telephone or other
interconnect problems, normal maintenance, unauthorized access, theft,
operator errors severe weather, earthquakes, floods and strikes, or any
other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Bank

For Mobile Token, A smartphone and mobile banking app is required to
get OTP (One Time Password)

Charges

Charges can be applied by the Bank in relation to payments inwards or
outwards in accordance with the Bank's Tariff of Charges,

IFIC shall initially provide the Aamar Bank Services at free of cost.

In case of Lost/Physically Mobile Banking app-enabled phone, please
unlink the Mobile Banking app from the online channel or call our 24hour
Call Center 16255. For overseas callers call at +880 9666716255 and
request for permanent deactivation/unlink of Mobile Banking App.

However, IFIC reserves the right to change and recover from the User(s)
service charges, as may be fixed by IFIC from time to time. The User
hereby authorizes IFIC Bank to recover the service charge by debiting
one of the Accounts of the User or by sending a bill to the User who will
be liable to make the payment within the specified period. Failure to do so
shall result in the recovery of the service charge by IFIC Bank ina manner
as IFIC Bank may deem fit along with such interest, if any, and/or
suspension of the facility of DB without any liability to IFIC Bank.

If User would like to effect a Priority Payment, which is a payment which
reaches the beneficiary on the same day that his/her instructions are
processed.

If his/her instructions to affect a payment are Non-Automated, that is
user instructs them to us in a non-electronic format, e.g. by completing
the Bank's payment order form or by sending instructions through e-mail
or fax (where applicable).

If the payment user request or receive requires manual intervention on
the part of the Bank and is therefore considered as being a Non-Straight
through processing payment e.g. where the user does not provide the
Bank with the correct routing number (as and if applicable).

If the user asks us to enquire why a payment he/she instructed has not
reached the intended beneficiary or any other enquiry regarding
payments instructed by user

Cancelling or Changing a Payment Instruction

If the user asks us to make a payment immediately, we cannot change it or
cancel the payment instruction because we start processing it when we
receive it. User can cancel a direct debit standing order and any other
payment which user asked us to make on a future date as long as user tell us
by the end of our office business hours of the Business Day before the
payment is due to be made. For the purpose of this clause, Business Day shall
mean Sunday to Thursday excluding Public Holidays and Bank Holidays.

If the user asks us to cancel a payment instruction, we may charge user
our costs, for trying to cancel it, whether or not we succeed, in
accordance with the Bank's Tariff of Charges as mentioned in Schedule
of Charges. There may also be third party bank charges related to
funding transfer, credit card payment, e-normal service and unable to
perform its obligations under this agreement, that case IFIC shall not be
commerce etc., in which case, these will also be charged by us.

Unauthorized/ Fraudulent Activities

Upon obtaining User ID and Password, User is requested to check the list
of his/her accounts with IFIC. If any of User account is missing, IFIC must
be informed immediately. If other customer's account (account and/or
credit card) is linked to User's ID, IFIC must be informed also. Do not
access it or do not perform any transaction on that account. Such
activity, if done, will be treated as fraudulent activity.

If User believes unauthorized transactions are being made with his/her
account, he/she should change the Password immediately and notify IFIC.

The User should check the Statements for all of his/her accounts for any
unauthorized transaction. In case of any discrepancy in details of any
transactions carried out in respect of the account, in that event, User
should immediately inform IFIC in writing. Bank's only responsibility
would be to use its best efforts to prevent such unauthorized
transaction(s) if none had already been made.

The Bank will not be responsible for any transaction in case of Joint
Account Holders (operating in either or survivor mode), where a
transaction made by one account holder is not in agreement with the
other joint account holder.

Mes


9.1.

9.2.

9.3.

10.
10.1.

11.
111

11.2

10.2.

10.3.

Online Fund Transfer
User shall be responsible for all” Fund Transfer” transactions. Fund

transfer can be made from user account to another account held with
IFIC and other Banks.

EFT/RTGS/NPSB Disclaimer

Beneficiary Banks/Branches should be capable to process RTGS/ EFT/
NPSB transaction.

BEFTN (Regular Transfer): Transactions processed before 04.00 PM.
Transfer processed through BEFTN would be credited as per BEFTN
rules and schedule.

RTGS (Instant Transfer): Transactions processed from 10;30 AM to 3:00
PM ona working day any amount.

NPSB (instant transfer): Transfer can be processed anytime.

Any transfer submitted after the cutoff time or on Friday/
Saturday/Public Holiday will be processed on the next working day. Per
transaction charge for RTGS transfer is BDT 100 including 15% VAT as

instructed by Bangladesh Bank (Latest charge schedule will be followed).

For any losses due to unauthorized EFT/RTGS/NPSB transaction, the
originator/payer must notify in writing to IFIC Bank within 7 days from the
date of issuance of the statement of account name(s), to the extent of all
outstanding dues, whatsoever, arising as a result of the Digital Bank
extended to and/ or used by the User.

IFIC Bank will not be liable for any Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT)/Real
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)/National Payment Switch Bangladesh
(NPSB) request rejected by system for the mistake/noncompliance of
BEFTN/RTGS/NPSB rules by the originator. The originator will bear/accept
in case the execution of any EFT/RTGS/NPSB request is delayed due to
unavoidable system malfunction or some other technical issues.

IFIC Bank will not be liable for any wrong credit to destination Bank
account executed based on the data input (i.e. A/C No, amount, routing
number etc.) of the originator.

IFIC Bank will not be liable for any delay by the concerned bank to credit
beneficiary A/c and the same is also applicable for the reversals.

IFIC Bank shall have the right to reject any NPSB/EFT/RTGS entry if not
fully complied with requirements of NPSB/EFT/RTGS transaction and
the originator is in default, including but not limited to the requirement, to
maintain an adequate account balance or line of credit.

IFIC Bank Limited shall not be held liable for any financial loss, if any,
sustain by the customer, due to system related complications during the
period of transaction.

IFIC Bank will not reinitiate any returned entries automatically, but the
originator may reinitiate, if necessary, any returned entry at their
discretion following the same NPSB/BEFTN/RTGS process.

IFIC Bank may add or modify the standard terms of conditions, (if
needed) extended to and/ or used by the User.

Exchange Rates

When payments to IFIC Credit card, from user's Account are in a
currency which is different from that of the Account, the Bank will apply
the Bank's standard official spot buying or selling rate at the time the
payment is processed by the Bank.

Maintenance of Sufficient Fund

The User shall ensure that there are sufficient funds in his/her account
for transactions through the Aamar Bank. All instructions of the User
shall be carried out subject to sufficient fund in the respective accounts.
IFIC shall not be liable for any consequences arising out of its failure to
carry out the transactions.

Overdrawn balances

User agrees not to use the Aamar Bank in any way that would create
unauthorized borrowing on any of his/her Accounts. User may only incur
borrowing with our prior written consent. If the user does create
unauthorized borrowing, we may debit any interest and charges payable.
IFIC Bank will not be obliged to act on any withdrawal instruction from
the user if sufficient funds, including overdraft lines of credit, are not
available in the Account designated. IFIC Bank reserves the right to apply
charges when Accounts are overdrawn without our prior authorization,
as per Tariff of Charges.

Anti-Money Laundering and Combat Financing of Terrorism

User should agree and confirm that he/she will not use this Aamar Bank
facility for money laundering, terrorist financing, illegal, unlawful purpose
etc.

User shall fully comply with the laws related to the money laundering &
terrorist financing and shall not use the Aamar Bank services for any
terrorism, proliferation financing or anti-state activities.

IFIC reserves the right to request an explanation from the User regarding
any matter pertaining to the Money Laundering Prevention Act and
Anti-Terrorism Act of the country.

Proprietary Rights

The User acknowledges that the software underlying the Aamar Bank as
well as other Internet related software which is required for accessing
Aamar Bank are the legal property of the respective vendors or IFIC as
the case may be.

The permission given by IFIC to access Aamar Bank will not convey any
proprietary or ownership rights in such software.

113

114

12.

121

12.2

12.3

12.4

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

17.1

17.2

17.3

174

The User shall not attempt to modify, translate, disassemble, decompile
or reverse engineer the software underlying Aamar Bank or create any
derivative product based on the software.

User shall keep all information whether of the User, IFIC or any other third
party/customer derived from the Aamar Bank Services strictly
confidential and shall not disclose to any third party without the prior
written consent of IFIC.

Liabilities of Online Services

We will endeavor to give a complete service at all times. However, to the
fullest extent permitted by law, and except to the extent that loss or
damage is caused directly by our gross negligence or willful misconduct
and subject to the following paragraph and to the clauses under the
heading Security Notice below, we shall not be liable to user for any loss or
damage that the user may suffer as a result of his/her use of the Channels.
In particular, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we will not
be liable for the delay in performing or failure to perform our obligations
hereunder if the delay or failure results from:

These Terms and/or the operations in the Accounts of the User shall be
governed by the existing Laws of Bangladesh, in force.

IFIC may, in its absolute discretion, commence any legal action or
proceedings arising out of breach or violation of any of the Terms for
Aamar Bank in any other court, tribunal or other appropriate forum
irrespective of the place from where the User access the Aamar Bank
Services, and the User hereby consents to that jurisdiction.

Any provision of the Terms for Aamar Bank which is prohibited or
unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be
ineffective to the extent of prohibition or unenforceability but shall not
invalidate the remaining provisions of the Terms or affect such provision
in any other jurisdiction.

If for any reason beyond its control including but not limited to a system
error, network problem, strikes, labor disputes, accidents, governments
requisition, restrictions or regulations on travel, hospital responsible
anymore.

We shall not be liable for any direct or indirect loss of profit, goodwill,
business or anticipated savings nor for any indirect or consequential loss
or damage.

We shall not be liable for any losses resulting from third-party services,
equipment, software, hardware or any other component, outside our
reasonable control (including, but not limited to, fixed line/mobile
telephony and Internet-based services and equipment, other service
providers’ services and equipment, software, browsers and computer
components and systems and third-party web sites, whether or not user
access such web sites through the Site or the Channels), whether such
services, equipment, software, hardware or any other component are
used by user to access and/or use the Site or the Channels or used by us
in order to comply with his/her instructions.

We reserve the right to modify, suspend or discontinue, temporarily or
permanently, the use of the Channels or any part thereof, with or without
notice, during downtime (i.e. during such times, whether scheduled or
unscheduled, when our systems, whether in whole or in part, are shut
down for maintenance purposes). User agrees that we shall not be liable
to user or to any third party for any such modifications, suspension or
discontinuance of the use of the channel or any part thereof.

Changes of Terms

IFIC shall have the absolute discretion to amend, repeal or add any of the
terms at any time and shall attempt to communicate such change(s)
wherever feasible by any possible means. By using any new services as
may be introduced by IFIC, the user shall be deemed to have accepted
the changed terms.

Non-Transferability

The grant of Aamar Bank to a User is not transferable under any
circumstance and shall be used only by the User.

Applicability to Future Accounts

IFIC Bank and the User agrees that if the User opens further Accounts
with/subscribes to any of the products/services of IFIC Bank, and IFIC
Bank extends the DB to such Accounts or products or services and the
User opts for use thereof, then the Terms shall automatically apply to
such further use of the DB by the User.

Right of Set-Off and Lien

IFIC Bank shall have the right of set-off and lien, irrespective of any other
lien or charge, present as well. as future, on the deposits held in the
Account(s) or in any other account, whether in a single name or joint.

Refusal or Termination of Instructions

User's instruction to affect a payment may be refused or terminated by
us for a valid reason, including:

If the user does not have available funds to make the payment or user has
exceeded a limit we have applied to his/her Account or card; or

The payment instruction is invalid, not clear or user has not provided us
with the correct details and information; or

There is a legal requirement or court or other authority that tells us to act
that way; or

The payment seems unusual compared with the way user normally use
his/her Account; or

=x ee


17.5 We reasonably believe user or someone else has used or is using or
obtaining, or may use or obtain a service or money illegally or fraudulently; or

17.6 For any other reason which may be separately set out in this Information
or in any other Terms and Conditions regulating the Account or any other
Bank product or service.

In such case, IFIC bank shall have no liability to the user if user suffers
loss as a result of our refusal or termination in these circumstances and,
in addition, user shall be liable for the damages caused by us, if any.
Unless the law prevents us from doing so, IFIC Bank will try to contact
user by telephone or through any other available and appropriate means
to tell the user that we are refusing to act on his/her payment instruction
or that we are terminating his/her instruction, including (where possible)
the reasons for the refusal or the termination. We will do this at the
earliest opportunity but in any case, by the time the payment should have
reached the bank user asked us to make the payment to.

18. Equipment Specification

User will be responsible for the supply and maintenance of his/her
computer system, telephones, whether mobile or fixed, and any other
equipment and for ensuring their compatibility with our equipment and
the equipment of any third-party service provider at all times.

I/We hereby acknowledge that I/we have read and understood the terms
and conditions for Aamar Bank and the risk involved in Aamar Bank
operation and further declare and affirm that by signing below, I/we apply
for the IFIC Bank Limited Aamar Bank Services subject to the aforesaid
terms and conditions.

If you need help with the log in process of Aamar Bank or have technical
questions, please call IFIC Bank 24-hour Call Center: 16255 (from
Overseas +880 9666716255)

Aamar Bank Support can be
digitalbanking@ificbankbd.com

reached via e-mail at

19. Termination on Aamar Bank

This Agreement is for an indefinite term. However, IFIC Bank may
terminate this agreement or cancel or suspend the use of the Aamar
Bank at any time by giving user One (1) months’ notice in writing or such
other shorter notice period as may be allowed by law, except where the
Channels or the Account have been or are likely to be misused or in the
event of any other serious reason including breach or possible breach by
the user of these Terms and Conditions, in which case, termination,
cancellation or suspension will be immediate.

In addition, the Bank may, at any time suspend the use of the Channels
for any objectively justified reasons including, without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing, user’s security and that of the Channels, the
suspicion of unauthorized or fraudulent use of the Channels, or a breach
or a possible breach by the user of the Terms and Conditions. In such
cases, where possible, the Bank will inform user beforehand of the
suspension and the reasons for the suspension and at the latest
immediately thereafter, unless giving such information would
compromise objectively justified security reasons or is prohibited at law.
The Bank will inform the user by his/her register contact number or by
any available or appropriate means.

Reactivation of a Channel which has been suspended by the Bank on
account of a breach by the user of these Terms and Conditions is subject
to a charge as per Schedule of Charges

The User may request for termination of the Aamar Bank to IFIC
branches at any time by giving a written notice at his/her presence
allowing 7 days times. The termination shall take effect on the
completion of the fifteenth day. However, the User shall always be held
liable for all accrued obligation or instruction given before or on the
effective date of termination.

Termination of this Agreement will not affect any rights or obligations of
either of us. Upon termination, the user will be required to immediately
pay to us any outstanding fees or charges due.

In addition, unless otherwise agreed, on termination of access to or use
of the Channels, for any reason, any and all instructions made by user
through the Channels, save for the following, shall be automatically
terminated and shall not be executed by us. The instructions which shall
not be automatically terminated and which shall be executed by us are:

Cheque book Request

Stop Cheque

Positive Instructions

Order Bank Certificates

Card Replacement Request

Set a Standing Order

. Bill Payments

Furthermore, unless otherwise agreed, if the user ceases to have an
account with us, for any reason, any and all instructions made by the user
through the Channels and the use by himself/herself of the Channels

shall be automatically terminated and shall not be executed by us.
CHANGES OF TERMS:

IFIC shall have the absolute discretion to amend, repeal or add any of the
Terms at any time and shall attempt to communicate such change(s)
wherever feasible by any possible means. By using any new services as
may be introduced by IFIC, the User shall be deemed to have accepted
the changed Terms.

৫ ৮৮ ০:০7

20. Breach of Terms & Conditions

User must compensate for any loss that occurs as a result of his/her
breaching any term of these agreements.

20.1 PRECAUTIONARY NOTE:

In order to prevent unauthorized transaction through Aamar Bank
Service, Users are advised to strictly maintain the following:

a. The User ID and Password should not be written anywhere accessible to
third-party even if it his/her family members.

b. User should make sure that no one is physically watching the password(s)
when he/she is Logging in.

০. It is important to remember to click ‘Log out’ after completing his/her
Aamar Bank session.

d. User should not leave his/her PC unattended while logged in to the
Aamar Bank system and the browser running with a valid User ID and
Password cached as in such case anyone can gain access to the account
operation, political disturbances, acts of war, acts of God, which may
hamper to provide regular and

6. User should not choose Save Password options for any Auto Form fillers
at any Public PC or the PC which is not owned by him/her.

f. Avoid using Aamar Bank services at any public network (e.g.: Cyber Café,
Public WIFI), Otherwise IFIC is not liable for any incident of System Hack,
Intrusions, Account Hack or System infection of Malware or Virus occur.

GENERAL

g. The Bank reserves the right to close any account without assigning any
reason.

1... While an existing customer opens a new account, the Bank shall replicate
necessary information of the said customer from the previous account
opening form.

i. The Bank reserves the right to close any account having zero balance
without transaction for six (6) months. Before effecting any transactions
in the account, notify the Bank of such death or legal disability.

]. Nomination/Succession to the amount lying to the credit of the account
and/or operation thereof on the death of the person authorized to
operate upon the account shall be in accordance with the rules for the
purpose prescribed by the Bank from time to time and effective at the
time of the claim.

k. Statements of account are issued based on product feature
Monthly/Quarterly/Half-yearly and/or when a statement sheet is
completed in case of Current/Savings Accounts respectively. If
statements are requested in frequencies higher than the above a charge
will be levied as per the schedule of charges.

Duplicate Statements of past transactions are issued against payment of
charges as per our current Tariff.

m. For joint accounts, all statements are addressed to the first named party.

Accounts upon which an attachment order or other legal notice
prohibiting the operation of the account has been received will be ruled
off and no further operation will be allowed till such time as the
prohibiting order is removed

o. Customer transactions will be entertained during normal Banking hours
that may be in force from time to time.

The account holder should notify the Bank of any change of address in
writing. Otherwise, Bank will not be liable for delivering account
statement/Bank communication to the recorded address of the account
holder.

q. Each account will be allocated a distinct number which should be quoted by
the depositor(s) when writing to the Bank or when making a deposit, etc.

r The Bank may without notice combine or consolidate account(s) with my
liabilities to the Bank and set-off or transfer any sum(s) standing to the
credit of such accounts or any other suit(s) owing to the customer from
the Bank in or towards satisfaction or the customer's liabilities to the
Bank on any other respect whether such liabilities be actual or
contingent, primary or collateral and several or joint.

In addition to any general lien or other rights or remedies to the which the
Bank shall be entitled, the Bank may at any and from time to time apply any
credit balance to which the customer(s) is /are entitled on any account(s)
with the Bank (including the above account(s)) in satisfaction of any of its
indebtedness to the Bank. Further, any of the account(s) of the Customer(s)
with any branch of the Bank shall be treated as combined account.

Operations of the Non-resident accounts shall be governed as per the
guidelines of Bangladesh Bank. Holders of Non-resident accounts should
advise the Bank immediately upon return to Bangladesh if they intend to
take permanent residence in Bangladesh. It is also the responsibility of
the customer to inform the Bank in writing before leaving the country.

u. The Bank reserves the right to amend the terms and conditions, current
Tariff without notice.

৬. The account holder is solely responsible for the prompt examination of
all entries in the statement and must give the Bank written notice within
14 days of the date of the relevant statement of any discrepancy that he
believes exists between any such statement and his own records. In the
absence of any such notice from the account holder, he/she will be
deemed to have agreed and certified conclusively (for all purposes) the
correctness of the relevant statement of account.

a

Pp

*

fa

3

হি. —


17. In the event of the death of one or more customer(s) in a joint account,
the right of the survivor(s) to operate the account will be ceased unless
appropriate order is received from a court of competent jurisdiction for
operation of accounts.

18. Anewly opened account will be activated upon accomplishment of Know
Your Customer (KYC) as per Bank policy.

19. The Bank may refuse to process any transaction on any customers’
account(s) if the Bank suspects fraud or illegality therein. The Banks’
decision on whether the transaction is or likely to be involved a fraud or
irregularity shall be final and conclusive and binding on the customer.

20. The Bank will not execute any customer transaction over phone, fax and
e-mail (unless standard indemnity arrangements are already in place).

DEFINITIONS

In these terms and conditions, the words in bold below have the following.
meanings:

1. Account(s): means all current, saving and Loan accounts opened by the
Bank in your name and includes all money or balances therein, all accrued
and accruing interests and all related rights. Unless specified otherwise,
reference to “Account” includes both your Current and Savings accounts.
An Account with the Bank may only be held by an individual who is acting
in his own name. Each Account is identified by its respective IBAN and
will be associated with a person that opens a new Account.

2. Agreement: means the terms and conditions contained in this document
and its Schedules and/or Sections.

3. Bank: International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC
Bank) is a banking company incorporated in the People’s Republic of
Bangladesh with limited liability. It was set up at the instance of the
Government in 1976 as a joint venture between the Government of
Bangladesh and sponsors in the private sector with the objective of
working as a finance company within the country and setting up joint
venture banks/financial institutions aboard. In 1983 when the Government
allowed banks in the private sector, IFIC was converted into a full-fledged
commercial bank. The Government of the People’s Republic of
Bangladesh now holds 32.75% of the share capital of the Bank. Directors
and Sponsors having vast experience in the field of trade and commerce
own 11.31% of the share capital and the rest is held by the general public.

4. — Bank's Customer Support Centre: The Bank's support service center that
can be reached through the message center on the Website or the IFIC
Mobile App, If you need help with the log in process of Aamar Bank or
have technical questions, please call IFIC Bank 24-hour Call Center:
16255 (from Overseas +880 9666716255)

5. Business Day: any day other than Friday, Saturdays, or national holidays
applicable for settlement currencies.

6... Card or Cards: the IFIC Card, as well as any other cards which may be
issued by the Bank for the duration of this business relationship.

7. Cardholder: a person who has been issued with a Card by the Bank.
8. Currency: a system of money in general use in a particular country.
9. Customer: means (i) the person who now or hereafter is an Account

holder or has an interest therein; and (ii) the person who now or hereafter
subscribes to services or products offered by the Bank.

10. Deposit: to transfer funds into the Account(s).
a) Card Replacement Request
b) Seta Standing Order
০) Bill Payments

Furthermore, unless otherwise agreed, if the user ceases to have an
account with us, for any reason, any and all instructions made by user
through the Channels and the use by himself/herself of the Channels
shall be automatically terminated and shall not be executed by us.

11. Evidence of your identity: a clear and legible copy of a valid, unexpired,
government-issued document containing photographic evidence of
identity, specifically either your:

a) National identity card (copy of front and back) or local equivalent,
and/or

b) Passport (copy of photo and details).

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.
29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.
35.

IFIC Current Account: the interest-free account you hold with the Bank,
as set out further in the specific product description.

IFIC Debit Card: the Debit Card issued by the Bank to its customers for
whom it has opened an account;

IFIC Mobile App: the software that you can install on your own mobile
device through which you can:

a) Manage your IFIC Card;
) Check your balances and available funds;
) View your recent transactions;

) Transfer money between your accounts or to third parties’
accounts;

e) Apply for a range of services being offered by the Bank.

IFIC Savings Account: the savings account you hold with us, and from
which money can be withdrawn immediately, subject to Bank's approval.

IFIC Fixed Term Deposit: the fixed term deposit which you have opened
and fixed with the Bank for a defined period as may be established by the
Bank from time to time. The IFIC Fixed Term Deposit will be linked to a
determined Savings Account.

Frequently Asked Questions, FAQ: means the document issued by the
Bank in question and answer format that introduces customers to the
Bank service or answers common questions. Please, to read IFIC Bank's
FAQ go to the website https://www.ificbankbd.com/customer-support
Identification Documents: documents which the Bank can rely on as
evidence of your identity and/or permanent residential address, access
to which can be required as part of your account opening documentation
or at any stage of the business relationship with the Bank;

Office hours: between 1000 hours to 1800 hours on a Business Day.

Online Account: the secure area within the IFIC Mobile App, which gives
you access to your Profile and the different services offered by the Bank.
Online Transactions Summary: a list showing details of all transactions
(including withdrawals, incoming payments, outgoing payments and
interest paid, if applicable) on the Accounts. This can be accessed
through your Online Account.

Opening Deposit: the first payment you make into the Savings/Current
Account(s).

Opening Hours: The Bank's Customer Support Centre is currently open
twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Opening Hours may change
from time to time as notified on the Bank's Website.

Password: the secure string of characters that must be supplied by you in
order to gain full or partial access to your Online Account.

Personal Data: the personal data of the Customer as defined under the
Bank's Privacy Policy.

Pin code: the six-digit sequence of numbers used as a secret key for
accessing your Online Account, when used in related with your User ID.

Profile: Your Accounts and transaction details as a Bank customer.
Real-time: immediate processing.

Savings Goal (comport zone): is a Savings Account on which the
Customer can manage his/her savings.

Security Details: your password, User ID and Pin code.

Service: the online banking service we agree to provide to you under this
agreement from time to time.

Statement: a formal record listing all the transactions on your Account
for a pre-determined or selected time-period, including withdrawals,
deposits, interest earned on your Account (if applicable), deposits of an
IFIC Fixed Term Deposit on maturity, withholding tax deductions on
interest earned (if applicable) and other account activity as may be
applicable.

User ID: the unique identifier enabling you to gain access to your Online
Account.

We, us, our: IFIC Bank or the Bank, as defined above.

Website: the commercial Banking website, currently
www.ificbank.com.bd (or any other URL as we may notify to you from
time to time)

aos

Account Number

I/we understand that, to open a relationship account with IFIC Bank Limited, I/we am/are required to declare the source of funds that I/we will be depositing into the account including
future deposits whether in cash, cheque, EFT, RTGS, NPSB, SWIFT or any other method. I/we further confirm that these funds are derived from legal and legitimate sources as stated
above. I/We also confirm that I/we will provide more/other documentary evidence of the source of funds if/when required further.

1st Applicant signature

2"™4 Applicant signature

3" Applicant signature

Name :
Date

Name :
Date

Name:
Date

ml


