United Commercial Bank PLC

UCB A Branch

Account Opening Form
Term Deposit/Savings Scheme/ Special Scheme

Date (For Bank use only)
Account No.
The Manager
United Commercial Bank PLC CIF
Branch
Dear Sir,

\/We hereby request you to kindly open an account in your branch . I/We furnish my/our account, personal and organization related information in details hereunder.

PART:

ACCOUNT RELATED INFORMATION

1. Account Title :(বাৎলায় )

In English ( Block Letter)

2. 2) Applicable for Term Deposit:

Name of the Product Amount (in number)
Amount (in words) Interest Rate
Tenor: Year(s) Month(s) Days Maturity date

In case of maturity/renewal : (Mark ৬৮) Renew both principal and interest.

Renew principal only and credit interest to my/our Account No.

Not Applicable

০) Applicable for Savings Scheme/ Special Scheme:

Name of the Scheme Tenor of the Scheme

Frequency of instalment payable by customer Number of instalment
Amount of instalment (in number) (in words)

Payable on maturity (in number) (in words)

One time deposit (in number) (in words)

Frequency of payment Number of instalment

Amount payable by Bank per instalment (in number) {in words)

3, Mode of Operation (Mark  ) Singly Jointly ] Any One Either or Survivor Others

PART-2: ORGANIZATION RELATED INFORMATION

1. Name of Organization: (বাংলায় )

In English ( Block Letter)

2. Trade Licence No. : Date:

Issuing Authority

3. Registration No. : Date:
Registration Authority : Country
Registered Address

4. VAT Registration No./BIN : 5. E-TIN (if any)

Bank Official’s Signature

Deposit/Savings Scheme/ Special S Page no........ of total ....... pages


6. Business/Office Address

7. Type of Organization (Mark ৬): Proprietorship Partnership Joint Venture Private Limited Company Public Limited Company
Trust NGO/NPO Club/Society Educational Institute Religious Institute
Others (Please Specify)

8. Type of Business (Mark ৮) : Trading Service Manufacturing Others (Please Specify)

9. Nature of Business (Details)

10. Annual Turnover

PART-3: INDIVIDUAL INFORMATION |

Account Number

(For Bank use only)

1 হিসাবধারীর/পরিচালনাকারীর নাম (ae)

In English (Block Letter)

2. Date of Birth

3. Father's Name (Block Letter)

4. Mother's Name (Block Letter)

5. Spouse’s Name (Block Letter)

6. Nationality 7.Gender (Mark / ) Male Female Third Gender
(lf the account holder is a foreign citizen, then copy of the passport with valid VISA must be obtained)
8. Resident status (Mark ৮) Resident [] Non-Resident

(Instructions of Guidelines for Foreign Exchange Transactions will be followed by Bank if necessary)

9, Profession (In details)

10. Probable Monthly Income

1. Source of Fund (In details)

12. E-TIN (if any):

13. (2) Present Address Area/ Village

Post Office Upazila/Thana District Post Code
Country Phone/Mobile No. E-mail

(b) Permanent Address Area/ Village

Post Office Upazila/Thane District Post Code
Country Phone/Mobile No. E-mail

14. Identity Document : National ID No. / Passport No. (with expiry date) / Birth Certificate / Other:

15. Introducer's Information (For other identity document except NID)

(2) Name:

(০) Account Number/National ID (c) Date of Birth

Signature of the Introducer with Date

16. If the account holder is a minor.

|, as the legal guardian of the mentioned account holder declare that he/she is a minor His/her required information is provided in the attached form. Untill my further
declaration or he/she becomes major the account will be operated with my signature as the legal guardian. (Guardian means father/mother/any other legal guardian in
absence of both)

16. (a) Name of Guardian: Relationship with the minor:

Phone/Mobile No.:

1 If there is more than one account holder then each of the account holder's and if account holder is minor then the guardian of the account holder (Father/Mother/Legal Guardian)
personal information form should be attached as part 3 or attachment of part 3 separately.

Bank Official's Signature

Page no....... of total ....... pages Term Deposit/Savings Scheme/ Special Scheme AOF www.ucb.com.od


PART-4: NOMINEE INFORMATION 2

Account Number

(For Bank use only)

1. I/We hereby nominate the below mentioned person/persons to receive the proceeds of this account in the event of my/our death. I/we reserve the right to cance! or

change the nominee at any time. I/We further agree that the Bank shall make payment as per our aforesaid instruction and, upon payment, obligations in respect of the
concerned deposit shall be deemed fulfilled,

(a) Name of the Nominee Date of Birth
(০) Address

(c) Percentage of Share _______ (d) Relationship with Applicant

(6) National ID/Valid Passport No./Birth Certificate No/Others (Please Specify)

(f) Phone/Mobile No. E-mail

2. As per provision of section 103(2) of the Bank Company Act, 1991, I/we hereby authorise the below mentioned person to receive
the money on behalf of the nominee if the nominee remains minor at the time of my/our death.

a. Guardian's Name Phone/Mobile No.

6 Permanent Address

c. National ID/Passport No./Birth Certificate No./Others d. Relationship with Nominee

DECLARATION & SIGNATURE °

\/We also solemnly and sincerely declare that the above furnished information is true and correct. I/We shall supply information/documents relating to the account that you
may require at any time.

Account Number

(For Bank use only)

Special instruction (Mark /) Singly Jointly Any One Either or Survivor Others
1. First Account Holder/Operator 2. 2nd Account Holder/Operator 3. 3rd Account Holder/Operator
Please attach Photograph here Please attach Photograph here Please attach Photograph here
(Ficst Account Holder/Operator) (2nd Account Holder/Operator) (3rd Account Holder/Operaton)
Name : Name : Name :

BANK'S USE 0৭

Remarks:

AML Tracking Number RM Code
Opened by Checked by Approved by
Name, Seal & Date : Name, Seal & Date : Name, Seal & Date :
15 customer eligible for FATCA compliance? Yes No

If answer is Yes, FATCA compliance must be ensured. Necessary documents of customer/account holder must be collected as proof of address.

2. If there is more than one nominee then information of each nominee should be attached separately as additional attachment with part—4 of the Account Opening Form.
3. If the account holder is a minor then guardian of the account holder will sign in place of the applicant.

Www.

com.bd Term Deposit/Savings Scheme/ Special Scheme AOF Page no....... of total ....... Pages


Account Number
(For Bank use only)

Please Debit My Account No.

TERMS & CONDITIONS

This is an agreement between Account Holders (the “Customer”) and United Commercial Bank PLC ("UCBL” or "the Bank”) setting the terms & conditions for each TD account with UCBL. In
consideration of the Bank opening a TD account, the Customer by signing this Term Deposit Opening Form or by using an account, agrees to be bound by these terms & conditions, as amended
by UCBL from time to time.

1 Governing Laws, Regulations & Rules: These terms & conditions are applicable to the Bank's customers (existing & new) and governed by the laws, rules & regulations of the Central Bank

of Bangladesh and policies & guidelines of the Bank in accordance with the laws of the land.

Acceptance of Terms & Condi s: Any person opening an account with the Bank shall be deemed to have read, understood & accepted the terms & conditions herein governing the

account.

UCB will nat issue FD receipt/advice until the customer gives instruction in writing.

The Customer can close Term Deposit in advance at any time prior to maturity by giving closing instruction in writing. In this case, UCB shall apply prevailing premature encashment policy for

the respective Term Deposit product.

The customer shall receive interest after deducting the applicable taxes, duties etc. as per existing rules & regulations. Govt. Tax, VAT, Excise Duty & all other related govt. levies will be borne

by the customer & will be deducted as per prevailing regulatory guidelines.

Information about Customers: Bank shall not provide any service to customers engaged in illegal activities affecting the welfare of the society. Bank shall therefore obtain full information of the

customer which is true & correct. The Customer agrees to provide the Bank such information, particulars & documents as the Bank may require from time to time in connection with the

Customer's financial condition, background & dealings with banks & businesses. The Customer confirms that all information, particulars & documents that the Customer provides are true, correct

& complete and that if there is any change to the information provided, the Customer will immediately inform the Bank in writing. The Customer authorizes the Bank to obtain any information that

the Bank considers necessary from other banks, organizations and the sources that provide information relating to the Customer's financial condition. It is the Bank’s policy to maintain confidentiali-—

ty of customer information. However, the laws & regulations in Bangladesh may require disclosure of customer information to Government organizations, regulatory organizations such as the

Bangladesh Bank, any person to whom the Bank is required or authorized by law or court order to make such disclosure, to any bank or financial institution with which the Customer has dealings:

19991901955 of whether the recipient in each case is located in Bangladesh or in another country, and regardless of whether such information will, following disclosure, be held, processed, used

or disclosed by such recipient in Bangladesh or another country. The Bank may also consider sharing customer information in a way that it considers most suitable with other organizations to

improve banking services. The Customer authorizes the Bank to disclose or share information at the sole discretion of the Bank and indemnify the Bank from any accidental disclosure of
information during the process of printing, transportation and filing of information.

7. Fees: The Bank shall be entitled without notice to levy or impose fees and other charges and expenses (including collection fees and legal expenses) as per Bank’s Schedule of Charges in
respect of any account or in respect of any banking facility provided to the Customer by the Bank and to debit the relevant accounts) in accordance with the Bank’s normal banking procedure,
Such charges are not refundable upon termination of any or all of customers) accounts).

8. Credit of the Account: The Bank acts only as the collecting agent and assumes no responsibility for the realization of any items disposed with the Bank for collection. Thus, proceeds of
cheques or other instruments deposited are not available for withdrawal until collected by the Bank. The Bank reserves the right to debit any account that may have been inadvertently credited
with an item subsequently unpaid on collection.

9. Closure of Account: The Bank reserves the right to close any account or related service without giving prior notice if the conduct of the account is unsatisfactory in the opinion of the Bank or
for any other reason(s) whatsoever. The Bank shall pay to the Customer all available and finally collected balances after all dues to the Bank have been recovered/realized at the time of the
closure of the account.

10. Deposits, Withdrawals & Banking Facilities: The Bank shall meet its obligations exclusively at the Branch office where the account is maintained by the Customer. When, appropriate
telecommunication is possible, deposit or withdrawal of money may be made at any of the Bank’s branches in Bangladesh subject to the terms & conditions of the Bank. The Customer shall
ensure that there are sufficient funds (or pre-arranged credits) for the Bank to honor cheques presented to the Bank. The Bank may, at its, sole discretion carry out instruction notwithstanding
such inadequacy and may do so without seeking prior approval from or notice to the Customer and the Customer shall be responsible to repay the resulting overdraft, advance or credit thereby
for all related charges.

1. Suspicious Transaction: The Bank may refuse to proceed any transaction on any account of the Customer if the Bank suspects fraud or illegality therein. The decision of the Bank with regards
to whether the transaction is or is likely to be involved a fraud or irregularity shall be final & conclusive and binding on the Customer.

12. Instruments Deposited: The Bank will not accept stale or post dated instrument for deposit. The Bank may refuse to accept an instrument payable to “Cash’ if the instrument is not payable to
“Bearer”. The Bank will refuse to accept an instrument for deposit if the payee’s name is not identical to the name of the Customer in the Bank's record.

13, Orders to Stop Payment or Amend Instruction: A Customer may place a stop payment order for a cheque in writing. The Bank will not make the payment if it has reasonable opportunity to
act on such order,

14. Nominee: In the event of the death of a Customer, the Nominee shall receive/draw the amount of deposit held by the Bank in the Customer's account. In the event, the Nominee is a Minor, at
the time of the death: the legal guardian is authorized to receive/draw the amount of deposit held by the Bank, in the Customer’s account. In the event there is no nominee, the account will be
frozen until the legal successors to the deceased is appointed/determined by the relevant Court of Law. In case of Non-resident Nominee, if the proceed of the relevant account is payable to
that nonresident, Exchange Control Regulations will be applicable for outward remittance.

15. Service Disruption: The Customer agrees that the Bank will not be liable for any loss or any damage if it is unable to provide services in connection with any customer accounts due to postal,
courier, electrical, mechanical, telecommunication or computer failure or an act of God, catastrophe, war, civil or industrial disturoance.

16. No Liability of Loss: The Customer agrees that the Bank will not be liable for any loss, damage or liability incurred by the Customer in connection with any of its account with or services provided
or agreed to be provided by the Bank or in action on part of the Bank or any of its officers, agents, employees and representatives. The Customer agrees not to hold the Bank liable for any
loss or damage arising from: (2) Non discovery of any forgeries or fraud, except to the extent that the Bank has acted with gross negligence, (০) The Bank closing the Customer's account for
whatever reason whatsoever, (c) Directly or indirectly, the error, failure negligence, act of omissions, or any other person, system, institution or payment infrastructure.

17. Joint Account: (|) Each of the Account Holders hereby authorizes and empowers each other to endorse for deposit & to deposit with the Bank any or all cheques, notes or other instruments
for payment of money, payable to or purporting to belong to anyone or all of us and if any such instrument be received by the Bank without having been so endorsed then the Bank is hereby
authorize to endorse any such instrument on behalf of the Customers and to credit the same to the Account. (II) An overdraft or other obligations incurred on the account or otherwise shall be
the joint and other several liabilities each and every Joint Account Holder In the event of the death or legal disability of any of the individuals constituting the Account Holders, the other
individual(s) shall immediately (but in any event not later than 10 days after such death or disability) and before affecting any transactions in the account, notify the Bank of such death or legal
disability. (|) In the event that there is no survivor or nominee, the account will then be frozen until the legal successor to the deceased or disable individual is appointed/determined by the
relevant Court or department.

18. Indemnity: The Customer shall keep the Bank indemnified at all the times against all losses, costs, damages, expenses (including legal fees), claims or demands arising in any way in connection
with the Customer's accounts or in enforcing these terms & conditions and in recovering of any amount due to the Bank or incurred by the Bank in legal proceedings of whatever nature.

19, Waiver: No forbearance negligence or waiver by the Bank in enforcement of any to these terms & conditions shall prejudice the Bank's right to enforce the same thereafter. No waiver by the
Bank shall be effective unless it is in writing and duly signed by the authorized signatories of the Bank.

20. Variations: The Bank reserves the right to alter or amend these terms & conditions at any time by giving not less than 14 (fourteen) days’ notice to the Customer specifying the effective date

of amendment. If the Customer uses any banking facility after the effective date of the amendment, the Customer shall be deemed to have received notice of the amendment and to have

consent to such amendment and decided to continue to use the banking facilities upon the revised terms & conditions. The Customer further acknowledge that in the event of any changes
being communicated to him/her, the Bank is not obliged to obtain the Customer's signature for receipt of such communication.

All Fixed Deposits will be auto renewed at the prevailing rate of interest unless the customer gives different instruction in writing during opening of the FD & until the customer authorizes its

closure.

22. The Bank reserves the right to change the product parameters including premature encashment policy at any time without prior notice.

23. In case of default of Monthly instalment(s). Bank will realize penalty against such defaulted Monthly instalment(s) as per policy of the Bank.

24. Online liquidation of RD Account is not allowed.

25, Monthly instalments to be paid regularly on every month. Failure to pay 6 instalments may result in closing or payment of the Recurring Deposit (DPS) as pre-matured.

26. The terms & conditions are governed and shall be governed in accordance with the laws of the land. All the terms & conditions of the link (current /savings account shall also be applicable for
this Term Deposit account.

2 ০৯০১ ৩

21.

I/we have signed this application form as a token of acceptance of the aforesaid terms & conditions applicable for me/us and also confirm that the information provided in this form is correct.

Signature of Account Holder/ Signature of Account Holder/ Signature of Account Holder/
Operator Operator Operator
Name : Name : Name :

Page no....... of total....... pages Term Deposit/Savings Scheme/ Special Scheme A\

