BASIC Bank Limited

(Bangladesh Small Industries and Commerce bank Limited)

Account Opening Form

Please Open Account

Branch In-Charge

The Branch In-Charge
BASIC Bank Limited
১২০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০ Branch

please open an account with following particulars:

Date

AIC No.

Title of the Account : [In BLOCK Letter]

2.

CIF name will be part of the Title of the account automatically.

Type of Account :

Currency

Current

Savings

Short Term Deposit

Fixed Term Deposit

FC

RFCD

NFCD

Others (Specify)

BDT

USD

GBP

EURO

JPY

Others (Specify)

The Account is to be operated/closed upon by me/us (insert whichever is required)

Singly

Jointly

Jointly (Any Two/Three)

Any one can Operate

Either or Survivor

Others (Specify)

Initial Deposit

Amount:

Cash

Cheque No.

Transfer from BASIC Bank A/C No.

Drawn on

Bank

Branch

Details of Minor (if any)

Date of Birth

\/We hereby declare that the minor Master/Ms.

is my/our (state relation)

and the first signatory here to viz.

Mr.Ms.

is his/her natural/duly appointed guardian.

Fixed Term Deposit particulars

Amount:

Currency:

Period of Deposit

Month

Year

Day. Maturity Date :

Renewal/Redemption Instruction:

Renew principal With interest

Renew principal only

Renew principal only, pay interest in account No.

Not Applicable

Special Deposit Scheme Particulars

Name of Scheme:

Tenure of Scheme

Days

Months

Single payment/Installment amount Tk.

Number of Installment (Yearly)

Payable after maturity

Monthly payable amount

Years

Details of Accounts Maintained with Other Banks (if any)

Name of Bank

Branch

Type of Account (put tick mark)

Savings

Loans

Others

Savings

Loans

Others

Savings

Loans

Others

page -1

Transaction Profile

Type of transaction (deposit)

No. of Transaction (Monthly)

Maximum size (per transaction)

Total Value (Monthly)

No. of Transaction (Monthly)

Maximum size (per transaction)

Total Value (Monthly)

Cash Deposit (Incl. Online)

Deposit through Transfer/Instrument
Foreign Remittance

Income from Export

Others (Specify) ....-...--+১০শশিততিশিতততিশ
Total Deposit

Type of transaction (Withdrawal)
Cash Withdrawal (Incl. Online & ATM)
Withdraw through Transfer/Instrument
Foreign Remittance

Payable against

Others (Specify) ....

Total Without

Source of Fund:

If the above Transaction profile turns to be changeable because of genuine ground of
increase/decrease of my/our income source.

We shall notify the bank and submit a fresh Transaction profile.
Nomination Form for Refund of Money Deposited

(Vide Section 103 of the Bank Company Act 1991)

The Branch In-Charge

BASIC Bank Limited
২+০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০২০৩০০০৩০০২০০৩০০০৩৭ Branch
Date

Account No.

DIF No.

We (Pls. print full name)

have given my / our authority to:

SL.

Name

Address

CIF No. (For Bank use)

Relationship

%of Share /

Nomination

Signature

Other Information of Nominee

Marital Status

Age / Date of Birth

Profession

(Hereinafter Called “The Nominee’) to:

(a)

That in the event of my/our death, the nominee shall receive/draw the amount of deposits held
by you in myfour account.

(b)

That in the event the nominee who is so authorized above remains a minor at the time of my/our
death,

(c)

(Name & Address)
is authorized to receive/draw the amount of deposits held by you in my/our account.

That the Nominee of the person so authorized under paragraph no. (b), as the case may be,
shall be entitled to all my/our accounts to the exclusion If all other persons and that payment
made by our to them shall

constitute a full discharge by you of your liability in respect of such deposits.

We hereby declare that everything done by you in pursuance of this authority shall be final and
conclusive and binding upon me/us . Ruther more. I/We hereby declare that everything done by
your in

pursuance of this authority shall be binding on my/our heirs, executors and administrators and
all other persons claiming thought or under me/us.

Signature of the 1 st Applicant

Signature of the 2nd Applicant

Signature of the 3rd Applicant
Name of the Witness
Address of the Witness
Signature of the Witness

Page-2

Terms &Conditions

10.

The laws, rules, regulations, Customs and procedures applicable to the scheduled bank in
Bangladesh shall apply to and govern the conduct of accounts opened with the Bank.

any person opening and account shall be deemed to have been read, understood and accepted
the rules governing the account.

Each account will assigned an account number, This number is to be proper quoted on all
letters and / or documents addressed to the bank and on all deposit slips. The bank will not be
responsible for any loss or damage occurring as a result

of wrong quotation of account number.

Interest / Commissions / Service or Maintenance of account charges shall be levied by the Bank
from time to time as per Bangladesh Bank Regulations. Bank shall also have the right to fully
recovered all costs and expenses (including legal

fees) an sing 9n any way in connection with the above account. These terms and conditions or
enforcing these terms and conditions and in recovering of any amount due to the bank or
incurred by the bank in any legal proceedings of

whatever nature.

The funds available in any of the account holder’s account (the customer) with the bank will be
considered by the Bank to be a security for any commitment (s), and or obligations (s_ present
and or f uture of the customer to the Bank. in the

event of dishonor or non-fulfillment o such obligations (s) and or commitments (s), the Bank is
entitled without giving prior notice to the customer to utilize such funds against the obligation (s)
and or commitments (s) of the customer to the

Bank.

Whilst the Bank maintains strict confidentially in all accounts and business. bank shall always be
entitled to disclose any information concealing customer’s business and accounts held with the
Bank to any of the following.

a) Any regulatory supervisory, government or quasi-governmental authority with the jurisdiction
over the Bank.

b) Any person to whom the bank is required to make disclosure authorized by law or court order.

Account holders must provide maximum security to the cherub Books in their possession and
the Bank is not responsible for any loss occurring due to inadequacy of security, any cherub
book loss or misuse must be immediately reported to

the Bank with subsequent confirmation witling without any delay.

The bank reserves the right to close any account without giving prior notice of the conduct of the
ac count is unsatisfactory in the optional of the bank or for any other reasons(s) whatsoever.
The opinion passed by the Bank in this regard

shall be final and conclusive and binding upon the customer.

The balance in the account(s) is payable solely at BASIC bank Limited and shall be gaveled by
and subject to Laws with effect in Bangladesh. As used herein ,Laws' will include Bank
Circulars, Modifications, Regulations and Orders of

the Government and Bangladesh Bank including practices of Banking.

The Bank reserves the right to amend the present rules at any time in any manner with or
without giving prior notice to the account holder(s) separately or to the public. The chaque book
will not be issued unless and until all the required

formalities and completed.

Acknowledgement & Declaration

I/We hereby acknowledge that I/We have read & understood the terms & conditions stated
above and agree to comply with them.

We, the undersigned, hereby confirm that the information given above is true & complete and
the transaction profiles stated above truly represents the expected transaction activities in
my/our account/business of our organization. I/We

also confirm to revise our Transaction profile, if necessary, from line to time that required as per
instruction of Bangla desh Bank I/We also authorize you to finish the information sucked by
me/us to any competent authority as and when

required under any provision of Law/Act or Bangladesh bank instruction.

Signature of 1st Applicant

Signature of 2nd Applicant

Signature or 1st Applicant

Requirements for Opening Account

০

০

Account opening Form: To be filled in and property signed by each account holder.

copy of passport/Voter Identity card/Motor driving incense/Office Id/Other ID acceptable to the
Bank.

Latest passport size photograph (2 couples) for each account holder attested by the introducer.
Introduction of account holder-To be signed by introducer with ID and account number.
A/C pace cherub in favor of the Account holder of Cash.

Foreign citizens in Bangladesh Additionally require: Photocopy of passport with veiled visa and
work purest .

Sole proprietorship
Copy of Trade License.
Sole Proprietorship Declaration.

TIN certificate & company seal.

Partnership
Copy of partnership deed of the firm.
List of partners with their address.

Copy of trade License.

For Registered Partnership Firm additionally requireCertificate of Registration of the Firm for
inspection and return (along with a duty dirtied photocopy for Bank’s records)

Extract of the Resolution of partners for opening the account and authorization for its operation
duly certified by the Managing partner of the Firm.

Limited Liability public/Private Company
Certified true copy of the Memorandum and Article of Associating of the Company.
certified true copy of incorporation of the Company.

Certificate from the Registrar of Joint stock Company that the company is entailed to commence
business (in case of public Ltd. Co. for inspection & return) along with a duly certified photocopy
for Bank’s record.

List of name with appointments and specie signatures of the persons authorized to operate the
account and request the bank to open letters of cred/Fuarntee duly certified by the
Chairman/Managing Director of the Company.

Extract of the Resolution of the board / General Meeting of the Company for opening the
account and authorization for its operation duly certified by the Chairman/Managing Director of
the company.

List of directors with address.

copy of Trade License.

Association/Club/Charity/Trust/Society Etc.

Certified true copy of the constitution/By-Laws/Trust Deed/Mornotandum and Article of
Associating.

Certificate of Registration of the Association / Club / Chantey / Trust / Society fior inspection and
return (along with a duly certified photocopy for Bank’s records).

List of members of the Governing Body/Executive Committee of the Association /
Club/Chanty/Trust/Society for especial an return (Along with a duly certified photocopy for Bana
s’s records).

Extract of the Resolution of the Association / Club/Chantey/Trust .Society for opening the
account ad authorization for its operation duly defrayed by the Chairman Secretary of the
association/Club/Charity/Trust/Society etc.

Local Authorities, City Corporation etc.
certified copy of The state/Any other law by which the body is created and governed.

Extract of the Resolution for opening the account and authorization for its operation duly
certified by chairman/Mayor/Competent authority.

Certified list of Members of such committee duly certified by Chairman/Mayor/Competent
authority.

Page-3

FOR BANK USE ONLY
Account No.

1st Application CIF:

2nd Application CIF:

3rd Application CIF:
Mandatee CIF:

Authorized Signatory-1 CIF:

Authorized Signatory-2 CIF:

Authorized Signatory-3 CIF:

Chairman CIF:

Managing Director CIF:

Divector-1 CIF:

Divector-2 CIF:

Divector-3 CIF:

Sector Code for SBS-1

Initial Deposit

Cheque issued from

to

Containing

leaves

If the account is used as settlement account for loan, please fill-in the following:

Loan / Contract No.

Input

Branch in-charge

Loan Type

Guarantor ID

Checked and authorized by

Guarantor Amount

Economic purpose code

Security Code

