Bangladesh Bank

Head Office
Motijheel, Dhaka-1000
Bangladesh

27 November 2024
BRPD Circular No. 15 Date: ------------------------
12 Agrahayan 1431

Managing Director/Chief Executives
All Scheduled Banks in Bangladesh

Dear Sir,

Master Circular: Loan Classification and Provisioning

Please refer to the BRPD Circular No. 14 of 23 September 2012, BRPD Circular No. 05 of 29
May 2013, BRPD Circular No. 03 of 21 April 2019, BRPD Circular No. 16 of 21 July 2020
and the subsequent circulars or circular letters on the captioned subject.

. Given the changes in the economic cycle, global dynamics, borrowers’ risk profile over time,

and international best practices, it is crucial for supervisors to regularly review and update
regulations on Non-Performing Loans (NPL) and provisioning policies to ensure more effective
risk management. It is ultimately the responsibility of bank management to make accurate
classifications and ensure adequate provisions, in line with supervisory guidance, established
global standards, and the relevant accounting framework. Basel III standard also requires
supervisors to closely monitor whether banks have robust policies and processes in place for
managing credit risk.

. As part of its continuous efforts to enhance risk management capabilities of banks and

strengthen the transparency of the financial reporting, Bangladesh Bank plans to implement
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) methodology-based provisioning system for banks in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS 9) by 2027. The ECL Model under
IFRS 9 enables banks to manage credit risk more effectively by considering past events, current
conditions, and future forecast.

. Against this backdrop, to make advancement of the implementation of IFRS 9 standards and

align with international best practices for loan classification and provisioning requirements, the
following instructions are provided:

. Categories of Loans and Advances:

All loans and advances will be grouped into four categories for the purpose of classification,
namely- (a) Continuous Loan (b) Demand Loan (c) Fixed Term Loan and (d) Short-term
Agricultural Credit.

a) Continuous Loan: The loan accounts in which transactions may be made within
certain limit and have an expiry date for full adjustment will be treated as Continuous
Loan. Examples are: Cash Credit, Overdraft, etc.

b) Demand Loan: The loans that become repayable on demand by the bank will be
treated as Demand Loan. Such as: Post Import Financing, Payment against Document,

Page 1 of 7

website: www.bb .org.bd Banking Regulation & Policy Department

Foreign Bill Purchased, and Inland Bill Purchased, etc. However, if any contingent or
any other liabilities are turned to forced loan (i.e. without any prior approval as regular
loan) those too will be treated as Demand Loan.

c) Fixed Term Loan: The loans which are repayable within a specific time period under a
specific repayment schedule will be treated as Fixed Term Loan.

d) Short-term Agricultural Credit: Short-term Agricultural Credit will include the short-
term credits as listed under the Agricultural and Rural Credit Policy and Program issued
by the Agricultural Credit Department (ACD) of Bangladesh Bank. Credits in the
agricultural sector repayable within 12 (twelve) months will also be included herein.

6. Basis for Loan Classification (CL):

(a) Objective Criteria:

(1) Past Due/Over Due: All the loans will be treated as past due/overdue from the
following day of the expiry date or from the creation of the forced loan or from the due
date if not repaid/renewed depending on different categories of loans and advances
defined in para 5. However, in case of any installment(s) or part of installment(s) of a
Fixed Term Loan is not repaid within the fixed expiry/due date, the amount of unpaid
installment(s) will be treated as past due/overdue from the following day of the
expiry/due date.

(2) Categories of CL: All the loans will be classified into following categories:

(i) Standard-0 (STD-0)

(ii) Standard-1 (STD-1)

(iii) Standard-2 (STD-2)

(iv) Special Mention Account (SMA)
(v) Sub-Standard (SS)

(vi) Doubtful (DF)

(vii) Bad/Loss (B/L)

(3) Objective Criteria for CL:
For all categories of loans, the entire loan will be classified depending on the period of
past due or overdue as stipulated below:

CL Categories Period of past due or overdue
STD-O | No past due or overdue

STD-1 | = 1 day but এ] month

STD-2 | > 1 month but <2 months
SMA _| > 2 months but < 3 months

SS >= 3 months but < 6 months
Classified | DF = 6 months but < 12 months
B/L > 12 months

Unclassified

(b) Qualitative Judgment:

Under qualitative judgment, any loan can be classified based on the perceived risk and/or if full
repayment is unlikely even if it has no past due or overdue on the basis of objective criteria.
Such classification should reflect the degree of deterioration in the borrower’s creditworthiness
and the anticipated impact on repayment. For incorporating qualitative judgment, banks must
use their own judgment based on the following indicative assessment factors:

Page 2 of 7

(1) Special Mention Account (SMA)

(i) Loans must be classified no higher than SMA if any of the following deficiencies of
the obligor is present: occasional overdrawn within the past year, below-average or
declining profitability; barely acceptable liquidity; or problems in_ strategic
planning.

(ii) Loans must be classified no higher than SMA if any of the following deficiencies of
the bank management is present: the loan was not made in compliance with the
bank’s internal policies; failure to maintain adequate and _ enforceable
documentation; minor operational or governance weaknesses; or poor control over
collateral.

(2) Sub-Standard (SS)

(i) Loans must be classified no higher than SS if any of the following deficiencies of
the obligor is present: recurrent overdrawn, low account turnover, competitive
difficulties, location in a volatile industry with an acute drop in demand; very low
profitability that is also declining; inadequate liquidity; cash flow less than
repayment of principal and interest; weak management; doubts about integrity of
management; conflict in corporate governance; unjustifiable lack of external audit;
or pending litigation of a significant nature.

(ii) Loans must be classified no higher than SS if any of the following deficiencies of
the bank management is present: the banking organization has acquired the asset
without the types of adequate documentation of the obligor’s net worth,
profitability, liquidity, and cash flow that are required in the banking organization’s
lending policy, or there are doubts about the validity of that documentation.

(3) Doubtful (DF)

Loans must be classified no higher than DF if any of the following deficiencies of the
obligor is present: permanent overdrawn; location in an industry with poor aggregate
earnings or loss of markets; serious competitive problems; failure of key products;
operational losses; illiquidity, including the necessity to sell assets to meet operating
expenses; cash flow less than required interest payments; very poor management; non-
cooperative or hostile management; serious doubts of the integrity of management;
doubts about true ownership; or complete absence of faith in financial statements.

(4) Bad/Loss (B/L)

Loans must be classified no higher than B/L if any of the following deficiencies of the
obligor are present: the obligor seeks new loans to finance operational losses; location
in an industry that is disappearing; location in the bottom quartile of its industry in
terms of profitability; technological obsolescence; very high losses; asset sales at a loss
to meet operational expenses; cash flow less than production costs; no repayment
source except liquidation; presence of money laundering, fraud, embezzlement, or other
criminal activity; or no further support by owners.

(c) Finalization of CL:
(i) Preliminarily banks are required to assess and classify loans on the basis of both
objective criteria and qualitative judgment. Final classification will be the worse one.
(ii) Classified Loans and Advances i.e. SS, DF and B/L (on the basis of both objective
criteria and qualitative judgment) will be treated as Non-Performing Loans (NPL).

Page 3 of 7

However, loan shall be treated as defaulted loan for the purpose of section 27KaKa(3)
as per section 5(GaGa) of the Bank Company Act, 1991 and to be reported accordingly.

(d) Improvement in CL:
(i) If a loan is classified, either by bank or Bangladesh bank, on the basis of objective
criteria, it can be moved to a more favorable classification category depending on
payment of its past due/overdue amount as per agreement.

(ii) If a loan is classified on the basis of Qualitative Judgment by the bank, from time to
time, in the judgment of the bank, it may be moved to a more favorable classification
category. The decision must be accompanied by analysis showing that there has been
improvement in the payment performance of the loan and/or in the financial condition
of the borrower. The decision to move a loan gradually from B/L to DF, or from DF to
SS, may, with appropriate justification, be taken by Managing Director/CEO. The
decision to move a loan from SS to SMA/STD must be taken by the Board of Directors,
with appropriate justification presented by the branch that originated the loan in
question and the Managing Director/CEO.

(iii) If a loan is classified during Bangladesh Bank’s inspection on the basis of qualitative
judgment, it cannot be declassified without the consent of the concerned Department of
Banking Inspection of Bangladesh Bank.

(iv) A bank may request the concerned Department of Banking Inspection of Bangladesh
Bank to review the classification of any loan for which there is a disagreement on
classification that is not resolved during the on-site inspection. However, in any case
where there is a lingering disagreement between the classification determined by bank
management and the classification determined by the concerned Department of Banking
Inspection, the judgment of the later one will prevail.

7. Accounting of the Interest of Classified Loans:

(a) If any loan or advance is classified as SS and DF, interest accrued on such loan will be
credited to Interest Suspense Account instead of crediting the same to Income Account.

(b) As soon as any loan or advance is classified as B/L, charging of interest in the same
account will cease. If any interest is charged on any B/L account for any other special
reason, the same will be preserved in the Interest Suspense account.

(c) In case of rescheduled loans, the unrealized interest, if any, will be credited to Interest
Suspense Account, instead of crediting the same to Income Account.

(d) In case of filing a law-suit for recovery of such loan, interest for the period till filing of the
suit can be charged in the loan account in order to file the same for the amount of principal
plus interest. But interest thus charged in the loan account has to be preserved in the Interest
Suspense account.

(e) If classified loan or part of it is recovered i.e., real deposit is effected in the loan account,
first the interest (charged and not charged) is to be recovered from the said deposit and the
principal to be adjusted afterwards.

Page 4 of 7

8. Maintenance of Provision:
Banks will maintain provision at the following rates for all categories of loans:

Particulars Rate of provision
.._|STD-0,STD-1,STD-2| 1% of loan outstanding
General Provision :
SMA 5% of loan outstanding
SS 20% of base for provision
Specific Provision DF 50% of base for provision
P ovisto B/L 100% of base for provision

The rates of provisions stated above are absolute minimums, and banks are encouraged to
assess the adequacy of provisions on a continuous basis to ensure that the provisions set aside
are reflective of their potential losses.

9. Base for Provision:

10.

For eligible collaterals of the following types, specific provision will be maintained at the stated
rates in Para 8 on the outstanding balance of the classified loans less the amount of Interest
Suspense and the value of eligible collateral:
a. Deposit with the same bank under lien against the loan;
b. Government bond/savings certificate under lien; and
c. Guarantee given by Government or Bangladesh Bank and AAA rated
Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs).

For all other eligible collaterals, specific provision will be maintained at the stated rates in Para
8 on the balance calculated as the greater of the following two amounts:
i. outstanding balance of the classified loan less the amount of Interest
Suspense and the value of eligible collateral; and
ii. 15% of the outstanding balance of the loan.
Eligible Collateral:
(a) Types of Eligible Collateral:
In the definition of Eligible Collateral as mentioned in the above paragraph the following
collateral will be included as eligible collateral in determining base for provision:
(i) 100% of deposit under lien against the loan;
(ii) 100% of the value of government bond/savings certificate under lien;
(iii) 100% of the value of guarantee given by Government or Bangladesh Bank or AAA
rated MDBs;
(iv) 100% of the market value of gold or gold ornaments pledged with the bank;
(v) 50% of the market value of easily marketable commodities kept under control of the
bank;
(vi) Maximum 50% of the market value of land and building mortgaged with the bank;
(vii) 50% of the average market value for last 06 months or 50% of the face value or 50 %
of the last closing price, whichever is less, of the shares traded in stock exchange.

(b) Determination of Market Value of Eligible Collateral:

(i) Easily marketable goods will mean pledged and easily en-cashable/saleable goods that
remain under full control of the bank. However, while the concerned bank branch
official will conduct periodic inspection to verify as to whether requirements have been
met such as the suitability of goods for use, expiry period, appropriateness of
documentary evidences, and up to date insurance cover, the same will have to be
assessed by the professional assessor from time to time.

Page 5 of 7

11.

(ii) For land and building, banks will have to ensure whether title documents are in order
and concerned land and building will have to be mandatorily valued by the collateral
valuation firm enlisted by Bangladesh Bank along with completion of proper
documentation in favor of the bank. In cases, where the valuation by the collateral
valuation firm is not mandatory, bank will do it by themselves. Nevertheless, temporary
establishments shall not be shown as building.

(iii) In order to facilitate the on-site inspection by concerned Department of Banking
Inspection of Bangladesh Bank, banks are also advised to maintain a complete
statement of eligible collateral on a separate sheet in the concerned loan file.
Information such as a description of eligible collateral, their assessment by a recognized
firm, marketability of the commodity, control of the bank, and reasons for considering
eligible collateral etc. will have to be included in that sheet.

General Instructions & Reporting:
(a) In terms of the above policies, the banks will conduct their classification activities on
quarterly basis.

(b) Periodic revaluations of collateral should be done. For movable collateral, it should not be
revalued at least one year before the last valuation. On the other hand, for immovable, it
should not be revalued at least three years before the last valuation. However, when
objective evidences such as an economic downturn or decrease in collateral value require
revaluation, it might be done before the mentioned time considering the bank’s risk
perspective. In that case, minimum value of the last two assessments should be considered
as actual valuation.

(c) The classification of each individual loan must be justified in writing and the
documentation must contain the signatures of both the persons assigning the classification
and the person reviewing it. These written justifications must be maintained in the loan files
and be available for viewing by the Bangladesh Bank inspection teams. Banks should
continue to use the existing forms for loan classification, provisioning and interest suspense
i.e. CL-1 to CL-5 as follows until further modification:

(i) CL-1 is the compilation/summary of 4 other forms. This form is for showing
summary of classification status for different loan categories mentioned earlier
along with staff loan;

(ii) CL-2 is for reporting loan classification of Continuous Loan;

(iii) CL-3 is for reporting loan classification of Demand Loan;

(iv) CL-4 is for reporting loan classification of Fixed Term Loan; and

(v) CL-5 is for reporting loan classification of Short-term Agricultural Credit.

(d) Bank branches shall send the completed forms (CL-1 to CL-5) to their Head Office. The
Head Offices of banks should make arrangements for scrutiny of all the forms prepared by
the branches. Where necessary, they should carry out corrections and ensure maintenance
of the corrected forms in the records of the branch. After scrutiny of all forms (CL-1,CL-2,
CL-3, CL- 4 and CL-5) prepared by branches and being satisfied with the results, they
should prepare a consolidated position of classification, provisions and interest suspense
using form CL-1. Banks are also advised to preserve the CL statements in both their Head
Offices and branches for inspection by the Bangladesh Bank inspection team.

Page 6 of 7

12.

14.

15.

(5) Bank should upload the CL-1 (Both Domestic Banking Unit and Offshore Banking Unit)
statement in Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) of Bangladesh Bank according to the
template (T_PS_Q_LN_PROV) for loan classification and provisioning.

(f) Banks are advised to submit detailed statements through CL-1 in respect of classification,
provision and interest suspense accounts within the 15" of next month after the quarter-end.

(g) Banks are advised to ensure correct and timely submission of CL-1; failing to which
penalty may be imposed on the concerned non compliant bank.

(h) The classification status of each individual loan will have to be reported to the Credit
Information Bureau (CIB) according to the instructions given by CIB of Bangladesh Bank.

Instructions given in BRPD Circular No. 14/2012 and its subsequent modifications through any
circulars or circular letters will be superseded by this circular. However, for provisioning of
Off-Balance Sheet exposures, the BRPD circular No. 06/2023 and any subsequent instructions
related to this will have to be followed.

Islamic banks must adhere to this loan classification and provisioning policy for their
investments.

This directive has been issued by Bangladesh Bank in exercise of its power conferred on it
under section 49(1)(Cha) of the Bank Company Act, 1991.

This circular will come into force from 01 April 2025.
Yours faithfully,
(Mohammad Shahriar Siddiqui)

Director (BRPD)
Phone: 9530252

Page 7 of 7

