wocumentaion Froceaures or
Loan and Advances

Md. Safayet Hossain
DGM & Principal

Rupali Bank Training Academy

Documentaion Procedures of Loan and Advances

GENERAL AFFIDAVIT

STATE OF,
COUNTY OF,

PERSONALLY came and appeared before me, the undersigned Notary, the within
named. , Who is. a resident of

County, State of . and makes this his/her statement and
General Affidavit upon oath and affirmation of belief and personal knowledge that the
following matters, facts and things set forth are true and correct to the best of his/her
knowledge:

(insert Statement)

DATED this the__day of 20

‘Signature of Affiant
SWORN to subscribed before me, this_day

NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires:

ener ere tee কা wee sory are

a1: জরা তা ore. কাজি

a8 new teyree ]
wets. We অত era
oe ee ue
sen ee were

সপ ০৯ er,

em @ Date Due:

AGREEMENT FOR TEMPORARY LOAN OF
DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.

“The following agreement is a waiver and a releare for the temporary use of durable
‘medical equipment by Arizona Bridge to Independent Living (ABIL) and.

NAME:

ese

Condition of the Equipment (accepted as is):
In consideration for being allowed to borrow the equipment without charge, borrower

L

Otherwise রাহ wok take posession of the equipment if
Dorrower believes the equipment to be unsale

2. Borrower acknowledges that he/she is taking possession of and will use the
equipment =as is” and "with all faults,” and that ABIL hes disclaimed all
Purpose. Borrower acknowledges that he/she assumes all risks resulting.
from the loun and/or use of the equipment.

3. Borrower will store and maintain the equipment only at the address listed above,
land shall not remove the equipment froma the address listed above to another
Address without the written consent of ABI

ABIL and obtaim ABIL": written consent before performing any
modifications oF repairs to the equipment,

Documents vs Documentation

What is Document ?

According to section 3 of Evidence Act. 1872: Document means an
matter expressed or described upon any substance by means o
letters, figures, symbols or by more than one of these means.
intended to be used or which may be used for the purpose of
recording that matter with an intention of producing the same as
evidence

বা দস্তাবেজ কোন্‌ বিষয় বা দ্বারা বা
(দলিল জা (Documen ২8 যাহালঅক্ষা অংক Pere an

idan

“ia oreo a
Fe Pee Tey হইতে Ser on eae ae

Document হলো আইনগত মর্যাদা সম্পন্ন ব্যাক্তি aks
স্বাক্ষরিত লিখিত দলিল যাহা কোন ঘটনার লিখিত বিবরন থাকে |

ব্যাংক সাধারনত খণের নিরাপত্তার জন্য গ্রহন করে এবং ইহা খণের
স্বাক্ষী হিসেবে কাজ PCS |

Importance of Documents:

1. Identification of borrower

2. Written Record of transaction
3. Legal coverage

4. Documentary evidence

5. Deciding Period of limitation
6. Filling of cases.

Importance of Document in Banks Loan

o It identifies borrower, guarantor, security, nature of charge &
creation of Bank's charge on security.

«> Documents are related to written record created for the purpose of
evidence and serve as an official record while lending the bank funds.

o Document is a written statement of facts evidencing certain
transactions covering legal aspect duly signed by the authorized
concerned persons having legal status.

o 0০0০0116115 are evidence receiving of credit from the bank by the
borrowers .

a Helps Bank to safeguard it's interest by incorporating protective
clauses as & when felt necessary.
a Deciding period of limitation.

a The Documents should correctly be taken by the Bank in order to
create required charge on the securities effectively in favour of
the bank.

a The proper and correct Documentation is essential from the point of
view of the safety of the Bank's interest.


What is documentation ?

o The execution of documents in proper’ form,
correct/authentic way and according to the requirement
of law is known as “Documentation”. So obtaining all
concerned documents properly and correctly from the
particular loanees is called documentation.

a There is no credit or investment without documentation.

1] In respect of security of investment, “Nothing can be better prove

of ceration of investment than Documentions”

« Documentation is permanent record of rights and liabilities of bank,
borrower and guarantor (if any) of a credit.

a If the bank failed to get documents properly, advance will not get
legal protection.

Types of Documents

1.

Charge Documents: it establishes the right of
the bank to get back of the loan/advance
extended to the borrower. In Rupali bank we
called it Charge form (C.F).

Security Documents : it establishes the right of
the bank on the property of the borrower.
Other documents : it establishes the right of
the bank and obligations on the borrower

Some important documents

Charge Document/Form Security Documents other documents

1. DP note (CF-1,2) 1. Tile deed and via deeds

with khatian.

2. Letter of continuity (CF-11) 2. Mortgage deed

3. Letter of Guarantee (CF-6) 3. Power of Attorney

A. Letter of Hypothecation (CF-8) 4. Affidavit

5. Letter of deposits of title 5. Agreement
deeds (CF-10)

6. Other charge documents 6. Rent receipt

7. NEC from sub register
office

8. Others documents

1. Letter of request

2. Sanction Letter

3. Letter of acceptance

4. Letter of authority

5. Balance conformation

6. Letter of disclaimer

8. Letter of undertaking

9. Letter of arrangement and
disbursement.

10. others

VN OMe £ 800৮৮ ৭ £ 91720 OF Whdady DE ১৭1০৭ 1৮541 0০১৮৫ [OTMS //411$16101 dale
commonly used in Rupali Bank as CHARGE FORFS(CF’s) in the
credit lines are depicted hereunder:-

DEMLAWIO PROMISSORY NWOTEHR=> CF-1&2

LETTIER OF CONTINUITY =CF 11
LETIER OF PLEDGE = CF 4
LETTER OF HYPOTHECATION = cFs8
LETIER OF 3% PARTY GUARANTEEH= CF 6
CHARGE OVER BONDS =cCFS5
HYPO. OF VEHICLE = SA
HYPO.OF PLANTS MACHINERY = CF 8B

DEPOSIT ©OF TITLE DERD Ist PARTY = CF-10
DEPOSIT OF TITLE DEED 3F"° PARTY =—CF-104

CrLARIGE (CF VERR FOR =("F-12
PLEAIOGE OF GOLD 8777 | এ
AY AAT CO এপস হোস SPS RTC. =F 104
PACEIMNG CREDIT = Cr G&G
LOAN AGNST. SB/CD = CF 19
LOAN AGNST. TEA = CF-21
COLIN TRR. Geli A RAP TRE = Cr 25

LETTERE OF BALANCE CONFIRMATION= SF - 175

Types of Advance and its documentation.
7” eee

There are different types of loans and advances
and so documentation will depend on and will vary
considering the types of advances and types of
properties/Securities to be charged, still then
there are some common compulsory documents
that are always to be obtained while disbursing
loans and advance such as ;

Master/common documents.

| here are some common compulsory documents that are always

৩০০ ১ ০৮ GDF ০১ [১ *

10.

to be obtained while disbursing loans and advance such as

The application received from the borrower
Letter of agreement.

Execution of Deed of Mortgage and POA
Sanction advice

Letter of acceptance

DP note (C.F-1,2)

Charge forms (C.F)

Letter of Arrangement

Letter of disbursement

Letter of authority.

Letter of disclaimer

Balance confirmation.

Procedures OF Documentation.

Drafting/Taking Proper Documents/Printed Formats.
Stamping.

Filling Up documents properly as per sanction letters .
witnessing

Execution of the documents
Verification of signature
Checking.

Records of documents
Registration .
Preservation/Safe custody.

Documents as per approval letter.
(Rupali bank Credit Manual -2014, P-118)


CONTENTS OF DOCUMENT
Correct name of borrower/guarantor. (গ্রাহক ও জামিনদারের নাম)
Issuing date ( ডকুমেন্টস ইস্যুর তারিখ)

Borrower’s address ( খণ গ্রহীতার ঠিকানা)

Loan account number/section advice no. ( অনুমোদান নম্বার ও তারিখ)
Sign of the both party (স্বাক্ষরিত)

Properly stamped. ( উপযুক্ত স্ট্যাম্প লাগাতে হবে)

Description of security and goods. (জামানত ও মালামালের বিতরন)
Amount of loan/limit. ( @t সীমা/খনের পরিমান)

Terms of Repayment. ( পরিশোধের শর্তাবলী)

Other Terms mutually agreed upon. ( অন্যান্য শর্তাবলী)

Date & Place of execution . (ডকুমেন্টস সম্পদনের তারিখ ও স্থান)
Valid & Legally enforceable. (আইন দ্বারা বলবতযোগ্য ধারা)
Expiry date (মেয়াদ উত্তীর্ণেও তারিখ)

Steps for Documentation

i) Prepare a list of require Documents.

ii) Verify the legal capacity of the executor.

(Minor/Insana/Bankrupt cant executor of documents)

(In case of LLC, power should be witin the limit of MoA 4404)

iii) Affix properly valued adhesive stamp or type on a duly stamped
paper.

iv) Execution:
= In presence of Manager.

In one sitting & with indelible ink

Any correction alteration etc must be authenticated with full signature

Correctly dated

If several pages executor (s) put their full signature in all pages

Witness

Registration

Oo O O8 70717177717 1777

Oo

Execution OF DOCUMENTATION

MB rafting or Taking Proper Documents Formats

Filling Up the Formats properly and corrrectly .

Stamping (Adhesive, Embosed, Nonjudicial).

Witnessing (Mortgage Paper/IGPA) (but DP note, LG, Pledge, Hypo needs no witness)
Signing (Execution)

Verification of Signature as per SS of AoF

Proper Dating of execution is required(to fix the limition time)
Checking and correcting with authentication.

Registration where necessary (1. SRO-Mortgage , 2. RJSC-Charge) .
Contents: Name, array, description, rate of Interest, due balance, terms and conditions etcto be clarely mentioned)
Documentation Charges/fees collection

Cancellation of stamps (other than embosed stamp).
Recording/Entry in the proper register.

Safe-keeping and preservation after serealing in SISO Register
Documents as per approval letter.

PRECAUTIONS IN DOCUMENTATION.

Obtain full set of documents depending upon the nature of
facilities.

Fill in the documents correctly as per the terms of
Sanction .

Never to deliver blank documents to the borrower for
execution in absentia as it may prove to be fatal.

Schedules of Securities should be properly filled in full
details.

As a principle, the security documents should always be
signed by the borrower/s himself/themselves and not by
their Constituted Attorneys otherwise it may lead to
several legal complications.

REQUISITE OF SOUND DOCUMENTATION

৩০ ০০ ১ ০ TR ০১ [১ +২

|
©

Correct name of borrower/guarantor.

Proper particulars (Drafting part).

Properly stamped and Cancellation.
Description of security.

Consideration amount, i.e. Amount of loan/limit.
Terms of Repayment .

Other Terms mutually agreed upon.

Date & Place of execution.

Duly registered wherever required .

Valid & Legally enforceable.

CARE TO BE TAKEN IN DOCUMENTATION
DURING EXECUTION

1
- Documents should be properly filled in

All additions, insertions, alterations, cutting etc must be
roperly authenticated under full signature of the
orrowers. Overwriting ,erasing in a document should not be
allowe

- Execution should be in the presence of officer responsible

for obtaining them as he should be able to identify the

executants personally.

- Same handwriting, same ink for maintaining continuity and

uniformity in the fields.

- Full signature (not initials) & each page to be signed at same
style (specimen signature card) at the end and at also the

places wherever blanks (information to be filled in) appear.

- Date & Place of execution.

CARE TO BE TAKEN IN DOCUMENTATION DURING
EXECUTION- Cont’d

> Word ‘ONLY" never to be put after the amount
particularly in the DP Note.

» Power of Attorney (POA) should be irrevocable and
registered.

>» Documents to be entered in the security register under
initial of responsible officer.

» Illiterate person - contents of the documents to be
explained in the language understood by him.

» Declaration to be obtained from borrower duly
countersigned by responsible officer to be kept on record.

>» Normally we obtain Right Hand Thumb Impression (RHT)
in case of females & Left Hand Thumb Impression (LHT)
in case of males.

CARE TO BE TAKEN IN DOCUMENTATION DURING
EXECUTION- Cont’d

The date of the document should be later than the date
v The date of the document should be later than the date
of the stamp paper.

v Better if the cost of stamps is debited to the borrower
A/C.

v Date to coincide with first disbursement.

vy Documents in case of limited company , partnership firm,
association etc. the laws and regulations of the company,
firm , association etc must be consulted and satisfaction
of charge is necessary in case of charging assets of the
10 company.

vy Documents can not be punched and to be preserved in
cover file

Witness of Document
eee

WITNESSING under section 3 of Transfer of Property
act -1882 If document is not duly witnessed will be
treated as not executed, must be executed first then
witnessed by 2 or more persons not a party to the
transaction.

1. Mortgage Deed

2.POA

3. Loan contract

4. Sale deed.

5. Assignment on Instrument
6. Will.

7. Personal guarantee.

8. Others.

STAMPING OF DOCUMENTS

eee
VALUE /CANCELLATION OF STAMPS

i Document should be stamped on or before execution. (Stamp act-
1988, sec.17)

2 Value of the Stamp . In case of doubt, collector stamp duty will decide
the amount. (Stamp act-1988, sec.31)

3. By executants in writing and cross the stamp so that it cannot be
reused.

4. Non Cancellation will be deemed as unstamped. (Stamp act-1988, sec.12)
5. One signature to be obtained outside the stamp also.

Types of Stamps

€ Stamp Act 1899 (Act No. II of 1899) in in force in
Bangladesh.

“+ stamp duty has been revised on 28 june-2012 and introduce
from 1, July - 2012.

stamp
- >
1. Adhesive stamp 2. Judicial stamp 3.Non-Judical stamp

Ne )

EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS AS PER
TYPE OF BORROWERS

Individual:

Joint Account holder;

Hindu Undivided Family (HUF);
Trusts;

Executors & Administrators;
Agent/Attorney;

Firms - Proprietary & Partnership;
Clubs & Associations;

Limited companies;

Legal provisions & Documentation differ for all above

customers.

WHO WILL EXECUTE THE DOCUMENTS

—
>

>

Minor - Guardian to execute clearly stating him as guardian for the
minor.

Sole Proprietorship - PROPRIETORY FIRMS Business wholly owned by
an individual. In law, there is no difference between proprietor & the
firm. Creditors have recourse not only against assets of the firm but
also against private assets of the proprietor. Proprietor has to sign
documents on behalf of the firm as well as in his individual capacity.
On DP Note “We" to be written.

HUF (Hindu Undivided/Joint Family)- Documents to be executed by
Karta. All major coparceners(Partners of joint property) to be made
guarantors.

Illiterate Borrower- Normally Left_hand thumb (LHT) impression in
case of males in the presence of Bank official. Wording to 92860
below LTI - “Left Thumb Impression of Shri--------------------- ". This
should not be attested on the document.

May be attested on a separate piece of paper which may be kept
with the documents. Additionally, a letter stating that the contents
of the documents were explained to & understood by him to be
obtained and countersigned by a witness & kept on record.

WHO WILL EXECUTE THE DOCUMENTS Cont'd

27
JOINT BORROWERS :

> Two or more persons or a group of individuals who do not constitute a
registered body of association are called joint borrowers.

> All documents are signed by all - jointly & severally. It means all are jointly
liable plus each one of them is individually liable for repayment of Bank's dues.

> In case of death or insolvency of any one or more of Joint borrowers, account
showing debit balance is broken to determine liability of deceased joint

account holder/s.

Partnership firm

> Documents to be executed by all partners on behalf of firm as well as in their
individual capacity. This is to make their individual estate liable for bank's

ues.

Limited company -

>» As per stipulation in Board Resolution. Affixing of common seal of the
company on security documents. Registration of charge with Registrar of
Companies (ROC) under S.172 of Companies Act 1994. Charge to be
created within 21 days of the date of documents. Form 8 - For Registration &
Modification of charge. Form 17 - For satisfaction of charge.

Creation of Charge on Security
7” eee
oLien
o Assignment
o Set-off
u Pledge
a Hypothecation
a Mortgage

Documentation for Lien

I 00000000000
Commercial bank generally extends loan facility to its
customers against the lien of

1. Fixed deposit Receipt (FDR).
2. Credit balance of DPS,SPS etc

Documentation:

Application from the customer.

DP note

Letter of continuation (CF-11).
CF.12,19,19A

CF-6 in case of third party guarantee
Letter of authorization

Sanction advice

Letter of acceptance.

০০ ০ oO BR wD

Documentation for Lien

161) on Financial Instrument like FDR etc.
- The Instrument duly discharged on the back of it.

- Letter of Lien (‘1st Party Lien’ - if the Borrower is the owner of the
Instrument, ‘3rd Party Lien’- if the Owner of the Instrument is one
other than Borrower)

- Letter of Authority to encash the instrument as and when needed by
the Bank

- Confirmation of Lien (Marking of Lien) from the issuing Bank.

7] Lien on Demated Stock/Shares

- NOC of the Company in case of Sponsor's Share

- Confiscate Request Form (Form19-1) duly signed by the pledgor.

- Pledge Request form (By Law 11.9.3) duly signed by the holder of the
share.

- Pledge setup Acknowledgement from Brokerage House
- CDBL generated copy of Pledge Setup

DOCUMENTATION OF MORTGAGE.

QL ১ ২ ও ও ও ২ ২ ও ও ও ২ ৭

Chain of documents (if available).

Original title ceeds and via deeds.
CS/SA/RS/BS/City Jorip Khatiyan.

Mutation Khatiyan.

Up to date rent receipt.

Non-encumbrance certificate.

Power of Attorney.

Legal opinion.

Valuation certificate

Location map and mouza map.

No-objection certificate from any development authority (If any).
Letter of depositing title deeds (CF. 10 or 10 A).
Letter of guarantee. (CF. 06 ).

Affidavit of the borrower


DOCUMENTATION OF HYPOTHECATION

eee
D.P note. a incase of joint account/ joint stock
company (C.F-2

Letter of continuity.(C.F-11)

Letter of Hypothecation.(C.F-8)

Letter of authority.

Letter of arrangement.

Letter of disbursement.

Letter of guarantee. (C.F-6)

Letter of disclaimer in case of rented godown.
Insurance of the goods as per approval letter.

Deed of mortgage and related document.

Others.

৮৯

২৩০০ ১ ০ oUF ০১ YD

৮১৮১
৮২০

DOCUMENTATION OF PLEDGE.

D.P note. (C.F-1. incase of company C.F-2)
Letter of continuity.(C.F-11)
Letter of pledge .(C.F-4)

Cash memo/receipt of locally purchased goods/identification of cash
price in case of locally manufactured goods. Invoices incase of
Imported goods.

Letter of authority for deductions of any expenses including interest.
Letter of arrangement.

Letter of disbursement.

Letter of guarantee. (C.F-6)

Letter of disclaimer in case of rented godown.

Insurance of the goods as per approval letter.

Others.

5.

Essential Features of SET OFF

Mutual debts must be certain.
Debts must be due.

Debts in the same right.

No agreement to the contrary.
Notice of set-off.

Right of set off without Notice

ao fF wn ৮

On the death, insanity, bankruptcy of the customer
On the insolvency of a partner of a firm.

On the winding up of a company.

On receipt of a garnishee order.

On receipt of an information of a second mortgage over the security
which is charged to bank.

On receipt of a notice of assignments of the credit balance of the
customer.

Documentation of Assignment.
Nee

4 Assignment of Bill by the beneficiary through IGPA

o Letter of Acceptance of Assignment by the work
giving authority

a Original Work Order

4 Other relevant documents as per sanction advice.

LATTER OF DISBURSEMENT

The Manager
RUPALI BANE LIMITED

Dear Sir.

With reference to the above demand loan availed of by
me/us today in respect of which l'we have this day signed a demand
promissory note for Tk. ------------------------------------ Please
disburse the amount of the loan by crediting the same to CD A/c ----

Yours faithfully.

Applicant’s signature

LETTER OF ARRANGEMENT

The manager
RUP ALI BANK LIMITED

Branch

RE: Loan/C.C (P)/C._C (H)/Overdraft'LIM (SME) Shahaj/Baboshahi/shulov/

Majhari Granted by you in my/our favor -------------------___-_-__- for taka.
Dear Sir.
With reference to the above limited granted. বার for which Iwe

have this executed pro-note and other necessary documents _L'we hereby ace knowledge
your right to cancel the facility at ay ime with/without intimation to us.

In the event of facility being cancelled by you Lwe undertake to pay you all dues
together with all other changes due from me/us immediately on demand.

Iwe also acknowledge your right to take legal recourse and initiate legal
proceedings against me /us in the event that /we fail to repay the outstanding liability in
full with any interesting. fees or legal charges accrued thereon.

Yours faithfully

Applicant's signature

0..1
ৃ 2
0:4০ I, promia to pay & the 0 of, the Rapele
.7// 4%%% ৃ
০052 22 the sume of
রাত
fer value received

নে ee

wilh Veh Se

fe cont /% Unita.

পুর
200

sum of Taha
with interest at the rate of

Guha _______on demand with
Intervest__—__ fret cent per

02727261774

১০০৭ ae BE

THE MANAGER Stamp
RUPALI BANK LIMITED

Dear Sir,

signed by me/us. This is given to you in cover of the Loans/advances facilities
Which is outstanding in my/our name

ded t / oy
sig aera eee Which you bave agreed to grant me/us

or which may be
outstanding at a later date in your Books. This will also be deemed to cover the
final balance of my/our account/accounts which may not necessarily be in
agreement with the amount mentioned in the enclosed Promissory Note. [t is also
agreed that I/We shall continue to remain liable on the Promissory Note referred
to above notwithstanding the fact that the liability/liabilities has/have
occassionally been fully or partly adjusted during the validity of the said instrument
or even though my/our account may occassionally show a credit balance.

Yours faithfully,


