10.

সাউথইস্ট ব্যাক লিমিটেড
Southeast Bank Limited

SEBL Internet Banking FAQ (Frequently Asked Question

Who can open SEBL iBank account?
Ans: Individual, Joint, Proprietorship and Corporate Account holders can get a SEBL Internet Banking
User ID by filling in prescribed form (signing in front of desk official of SEBL) through branch
Or
through online Self-Registration from portal.

Is the online self-registration process is applicable for all types of client?
Ans: Online self-registration process is applicable for Individual and Proprietorship customers only
and they will be entitled for view A/C status and download & print statement only.

| live in abroad. How can | open iBank account?
Ans: You cantry online Self-Registration .

Or
Download and fill in the iBank REGISTRATION FORM. Send it to Account opening desk of Remittance
division of Head office (Contact No: +8801678001315) (Email: hoaod@southeastbank.com.bd)
through email.

How much time it will take to get user ID and password after submitting registration form?
Ans: Usually it takes 2-3 working days. However, If you don’t get within 5 working days then email
us at ibank@southeastbank.com.bd mentioning your account no and branch name.

| got iBank user creation email but my ID shows inactive. How can | activate it?
Ans: To activate your Internet banking User ID for the first time please Call at 16206 (From Mobile)
or 09613116206 (From Mobile or BTCL) or +8809613116206 (From Overseas).

How can | access “SEBL App’’?
Ans: To access “SEBL App” for internet banking please use your SEBL internet Banking User ID and
Password.

| forgot my password or my ID is Locked. How can | recover my password or get my ID Unlocked?
Ans: Go to iBank login page and find the option Password Recovery & User ID Unlock option and
follow the steps.

How can | update my iBank related information (i.e Mobile no, Email address)?

Ans: Fill in and submit the iBank AMMENDMENT FORM to your home branch and wait for
confirmation mail.

| live in abroad. | want to change my previous contact number. Is iBank support foreign no? How
can | change my information?

Ans: Yes, iBank support foreign mobile no. Download and fill up the AMMENDMENT FORM , then
send it to Account opening desk (hoaod@southeastbank.com.bd) through email.

What is the daily limit of Fund Transfer through iBank?

Ans: In general,

Max limit per transaction (BEFTN&RTGS): Tk 1 Lac Max limit per transaction (NPSB): Tk 50,000
Min Limit per Transaction (All): Tk 10 Max limit per day (All): Tk 1 Lac

Max Number of transaction per day(All): 10

**You can enhance the daily limit up to tk 2lac (for NPSB) and up to 5 Lac (grand total) by sending
email request to ibank@southeastbank.com.bd from your registered iBank registered email address.

For any query related to SEBL Internet Banking Service

Please e-mail to: ibank@southeastbank.com.bd

Or dial: 16206 (From Mobile) or 09613116206 (From Mobile or BTCL)
Or +88096131 16206 (From Overseas)


11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

$3 সাউথইস্ট ব্যাঘ্ক লিমিটেড
Southeast Bank Limited
SEBL Internet Banking FAQ (Frequently Asked Question

What is the limit of Mobile Air Time Recharge?

Ans: Mobile Airtime Recharge limit for any prepaid number is Tk. 10/- to Tk. 1000/- and for any
postpaid number Tk. 50/- to Tk. 1000/-and system will not allow multiple recharge within 10
minutes to the same mobile number.

Can | pay credit card bill through iBank?
Ans: SEBL Credit card from utility bill payment option of iBank.
Any other credit card bill through BEFTN and NPSB channel from Fund Transfer option.

Which services | can get through internet banking?

Ans: Statement view, Fund transfer (within own account of SEBL,to other account of SEBL, to other
bank account through BEFTN, RTGS & NPSB), Mobile top up, SEBL Credit Card bill payment, Utility
bill payment (DPDC, DESCO, Dhaka WASA, BTCL, BGDCL, Carnival/DOZE internet), Account Opening
(FDR, Scheme Accounts).

Are all services of SEBL iBank are available in 45681110112
Ans: Yes, most of the services of SEBL iBank are available in “SEBL App”. But terms and condition
may vary between “iBank” and “SEBL App” including transaction limit.

| have view only services in iBank. How can | avail transactional services?
Ans: Fill in and submit the service AMMENDMENT FORM to your home branch and wait for
confirmation mail.

Are all types of users eligible to get transactional services?
Ans: Yes, all types of account holders are eligible to get transactional services except jointly
operated account holders.

Is there any special service for corporate iBank Users?

Ans: Yes, Fund transfer with Multilevel Authorization, L/C Opening Request and Bank Guarantee
request are special features for SEBL Corporate iBank Users.

What is 2FA (two factor authentication)?

Ans: 2FA is a method of confirming a user's claimed identity by utilizing a combination of two
different components. These components may be something that the user knows, something that
the user possesses or something that is inseparable from the user. We use RSA security token for
2FA.

15 2FA is mandatory for transactional services through SEBL iBank?
Ans: Yes, for transactional services through iBank 2FA is mandatory.
How can | get 2FA token (RSA)?

Ans: After getting permission for transactional services SEBL IT division will send your token file and
a installation guideline to your IB registered email address, please follow this email instruction.

Can I open FDR or Scheme A/C through iBank?

Ans: Yes you can open FDR or Scheme A/C debiting your savings account and you can also set
standing instruction for your Scheme A/C installment.

For any query related to SEBL Internet Banking Service

Please e-mail to: ibank@southeastbank.com.bd

Or dial: 16206 (From Mobile) or 09613116206 (From Mobile or BTCL)
Or +88096131 16206 (From Overseas)


$3 সাউথইস্ট ব্যাঘ্ক লিমিটেড
Southeast Bank Limited
SEBL Internet Banking FAQ (Frequently Asked Question

22. How can 1 encash my FDR or Scheme A/C?

Ans: You may also request for encashment of your FDR or Scheme A/C opened through iBank.
Usually it takes 1-3 working days to settle.

23. Is there any charge for using SEBL iBank services?

Ans: Yes, Present schedule of charge of SEBL iBank is as below:

Annual Service Charge :

For View Only Services :

Free for all type of Accounts

For Transactional Services :

Tk. 200/- + 15% VAT only for Other than Corporate Customer
Tk. 500 /- + 15% VAT only for Corporate Account

** Above mentioned fees may be changed time to time as per bank’s policy.

For any query related to SEBL Internet Banking Service

Please e-mail to: ibank@southeastbank.com.bd

Or dial: 16206 (From Mobile) or 09613116206 (From Mobile or BTCL)
Or +88096131 16206 (From Overseas)


