Frequently Asked Question (FA

1. What is IFIC Aamar Bank?

IFIC Aamar Bank is a Digital Banking platform and User-friendly internet banking service that enables you interact
with your bank 24/7 using only your phone or computer. You can avail banking services through IFIC Aamar Bank
without being physically present at the bank.

2. Who can enroll in IFIC Aamar Bank?
Any customer of IFIC Bank can enroll in IFIC Aamar Bank Service. Customer who has only a credit card but no
account can also enroll in this service.

3. Do I have to pay for using this service?
No. IFIC Aamar Bank is a service provided to all IFIC customers for free.

4. Where and how can I register for IFIC Aamar Bank?
To register for IFIC Aamar Bank, you can follow the below 3 simple ways,

vy Simply call 16255/+8809666716255 and request for IFIC Aamar Bank, or

৮:59 to SMS option >> Type “IFIC AB” >> Send 26969 (SMS charge applicable), or

v_ please visit your nearest IFIC Bank Branch and apply in the prescribed form. Your IFIC Aamar Bank
service will be activated by the following working day. During activation, the bank will provide you the
initial login ID and password through SMS.

5. How can I download IFIC Aamar Bank App?
IFIC Aamar bank app is available in Google Play store (for android devices) and Apple App Store (for iOS devices).

6. I have multiple accounts and cards with IFIC Bank. Do I need to add those one by one?

No. As soon as you register for the service, all accounts/term deposits/cards associated with your Customer ID
will be accessible through IFIC Aamar Bank.

7. I have multiple accounts and cards with IFIC Bank. Do I need to add those one by one?
No. As soon as you register for the service, all accounts/term deposits/cards associated with your Customer ID
will be accessible through IFIC Aamar Bank.

8. I don’t have any smart device. Can I use IFIC Aamar Bank?
Even if you don’t have any smart device, you can always use the IFIC Aamar Bank from any computer. But the
bank strongly discourages to use any public computer to do your digital banking.

9. I have multiple smartphones. Can I use my same IFIC Aamar Bank ID to my multiple smartphones?
Yes, you can. But try not to use on another person’s smartphone and also avoid public Wi-Fi for security issues.

10. How can I activate/login to the application?
After installing the app, activate it by entering login ID, password and OTP. Then you'll have to choose a 6-digit
PIN. This PIN will be required every time you try to use the app. You can change the PIN as and when you want.

Instead of the PIN, you may also use pattern lock, fingerprint, face recognition etc. depending on what
authentication method is supported by your phone.

11. What are the system requirements?
The application runs on any smart android/iOS devices e.g. phone, tablet, iPhone, iPad, MacBook etc. If you’re
using a desktop or laptop, please using an updated browser. The bank discourages to use outdated browsers.

12. How many mobile devices can I use with the app?

You can use IFIC Aamar Bank in multiple devices with your credentials. The bank discourages to use multiple
devices.

IFIC BANK LIMITED


13. I am getting Multiple credentials. What should I do?
The chance of getting multiple credentials is highly unlikely. However, for this instance always use the latest
credentials.

14. What should I do if my mobile device gets lost/stolen?
If you lose your mobile device, please log in to IFIC Aamar Bank from Desktop/laptop and unlink the lost device
from settings. If you’re unable to do so, please call 16255 as soon as possible.

15. Can I use the IFIC Aamar Bank Mobile app on Rooted Android or Jailbroken iPhone devices?
Yes, you can. But you may be vulnerable to hacking or similar kind of security threats.

16. Can I change my login ID and password?

The Bank will provide a login ID and password initially. The initial login ID can always be used to log in. Besides
this login ID, you can create an alias (alternate login ID) to log in. This alias can be changed at any time. If you
forget your alias, you can always use your initial login ID to log in.

You'll have to change the initially provided password during first login. You can also change your password later
at any time.

17. What if I forgot my password or login ID or alias (alternate login ID)?
If you forget your alias, use your login ID. If you forget both login ID & alias, please call 16255.

If you forget your password, click on the “Forgot Password” link from the login page. You can create a new
password by providing the answers to your preset security questions. If you forget the answers to your security
questions, please call 16255.

Entering wrong password 5 times will lock your account. You’ll need to call 16255 to unlock your account.

18. What will happen If I login from Mobile App first and try to login from Online later?

If you log in from the Mobile App first then the authentication method will be automatically selected to “Mobile
Token with OTP”. Later, login attempts from Online need Mobile Token instead of password. Mobile Token can be
generated from the “Secured Code Generator” option in Mobile App. After logging in to the Online, the
authentication method can be changed.

19. During login IFIC Aamar Bank mobile app constantly shows,” Device time error”. Now what can I
do?

This problem can be observed when device's time and date is not up to date. Updating time & date might solve
this issue.

20. I am using IFIC Aamar Bank. But I can’t find all of my IFIC products here. What can I do?

Probably you haven't checked to automatically add all of your IFIC products in IFIC Aamar Bank Service Request
Form. Call 16255 for assistance.

21. Can I send money to my family and friends using IFIC Aamar Bank?
You can send money to your loved ones any time using IFIC Aamar Bank. Account to Account Fund Transfer,
Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT), RTGS etc. payments are available in IFIC Aamar Bank.

22. Can I create standing order to send money using IFIC Aamar Bank?

Yes. You can create standing order (using recurring payment option) to transfer funds between your own accounts
or to send money to other accounts with IFIC/any other bank. You can modify your standing orders whenever
you want according to your needs.

23. Is there a limit on the amount that I can transfer?
Yes. You can check the limits from IFIC Bank website which can be changed from time to time depending on
central bank’s directive or the bank’s own business strategy & policy.

24. What is Partner and Templates?
While sending money to someone when you write the name of the beneficiary, a partner is created automatically.
You can select the same partner again if you want to send money to the same person in the future. Similarly, the

IFIC BANK LIMITED


template of the payment will be saved and may be used later. The template contains the source account,
destination account, amount and reference. Partners & Templates are editable whenever you want.

Please note that every time you select a partner to send money, the associated template will be loaded i.e. source
account, destination account, amount and reference will be loaded automatically from your saved template. If
you make any change (for example if you change the amount) and confirm the transaction, the template will be
updated accordingly. The template always remembers what you did last time.

25. If I made a transfer to the wrong account, how do I attempt to recover the funds?

You will have to use Partner-Template for sending money. The templates store some preset information regarding
your payment which includes the Beneficiary Account Number. It is highly unlikely to send money to a wrong
account. However, if you send fund to wrong account, you are requested to inform the bank by calling 16255 but
there is no assurance to get the fund back.

26. How to make transactions with QR signing?

QR signing option will be available only when authentication method is selected “Mobile Token with OTP”. During
sending money from online, a QR code will be generated. Subsequent scanning of that QR code from Mobile App’s
“Token” option, a secured Token will be generated. Customer can proceed with his transaction from Online by
using that Token.

27. Can I block/activate my card?
You can block your card instantly from IFIC Aamar Bank in case of lost, stolen etc. But to activate the card, you
need to call 16255.

28. Can I pay my credit card bill using IFIC Aamar Bank?
Yes. IFIC and other banks’ credit card bills can be paid using IFIC Aamar Bank.

29. How long will it take for me to receive my chequebook after giving order?
Typically, it takes 3-5 working days to print and deliver a new chequebook to a branch depending on the branch’s
location. If you order chequebook to be delivered to your communication address, it may take 1-2 more days.

30. Can I use IFIC Aamar Bank for Utility bill payment, merchant payment, Mobile recharging or
crediting my mobile Wallet?

Unfortunately, No. But these types of services will be added in future.

31. What should I do if I did not receive the OTP?
If you do not receive OTP to complete an action, you should try again. If you don’t receive any OTP at all, please
call 16255.

32. What happens if an OTP or Token is not entered immediately or wrongly entered?
OTP expires in 5 minutes. If you enter expired or wrong OTP, the action will fail.

33. What should I do if I change my Mobile Number/E-mail Address?

You can update your mobile number and e-mail address during registration. If you need to change your mobile
number or e-mail address later, please visit your nearest branch and submit a Customer Information Change
Form.

34. Can I use IFIC Aamar Bank from abroad?

Yes, you can. If your IFIC Aamar Bank registered sim doesn’t support international roaming then the
authentication method must be changed to “Mobile Token with OTP”. Authentication method can be changed from
Online and it must be changed before going abroad.

35. Can anybody else access my accounts online?
It is not possible to access your IFIC Aamar Bank without your login ID and password. You can strengthen your
login credential by selecting “Password and OTP” in Change Authentication Method from Settings. This way, you
will need to enter OTP besides login ID and Password during login.

IFIC BANK LIMITED


36. Is there a session timeout?
Inactive session times out after 5 minutes. You'll be automatically logged out.

37. What should I do if I suspect there are unauthorized transactions on my account?
If you suspect that any unauthorized transaction or action has occurred in your account, call 16255 immediately
to inform the bank.

38. What is anti-phishing image and how does it help me?

Anti-phishing image is an image shown to you when you enter your login ID on IFIC Aamar Bank login page. The
image is pre-selected by you and known only to you. Before typing your password, you must make sure that the
image shown is the one selected by you.

Phishing websites will not be able to show you your specific image (as they don’t know it). And this is how you
can detect if you are routed to any phishing site.

39. I have lost my IFIC Aamar Bank registered sim or I have lost my phone which is used for IFIC
Digital Banking. What Can I do?

For this situation, call 16255 immediately and describe the situation. Rest will be taken care of by our expert
customer’s support team.

40. How many authentication methods are available in IFIC Aamar Bank? Can I choose an
authentication method according to my preference?
There are three authentication methods available in IFIC Aamar Bank.

e Login without OTP: Log in to your IFIC Aamar Bank using only your ID and password.

e Login with OTP: Log in to your IFIC Aamar Bank using only your ID, password and OTP.
Mobile Token: Log in to your IFIC Aamar Bank with a token generated in your mobile app. However, if
you don’t use the app, this method will not be available to you.

41. What precautions should I take for this IFIC Aamar Bank service?

You can never be too careful protecting your hard-earned money from frauds and mischiefs. IFIC Bank is always
there to keep you safe and aware of the risks that may be exposed to using IFIC Aamar Bank. We request you to
comply with the following precautionary Do’s and Don’ts:

DOs DONTs
e Change and update your login password and e Don’t share your login ID, Password, PIN,
PIN regularly. OTP, anti-phishing image, answers to your
e Keep your registered mobile number, e-mail ID security question, card number.
and communication address updated with the e Don’t open any — suspicious e-mail
bank. attachments asking for your login
e Always call 16255 to report any suspicious information.
activity/transaction instantly. e Don’t enter your ID & Password to any
e Keep up-to-date antivirus in your device to suspicious site, SMS links offering you any
avoid malware attack. product/service.
e Always keep your device's operating systems e Don’t provide any personal information to
and applications updated. any unknown caller.
e Always use your registered mobile number and e Don’t save your login information in any
e-mail address to communicate with the bank. public device (e.g. café, university etc.). It’s
better to avoid using public device to access
IFIC Aamar Bank.

Please note that IFIC Bank will never request for your personal information and/or account information, PIN
number, password etc. by phone or e-mail or by visiting you in person. Our awareness initiative is intended to
provide you with the necessary information on fraudulent activities.

IFIC BANK LIMITED


