GUIDELINES FOR CONDUCTING ISLAMIC BANKING

Section I

Introduction to Islamic Banking

Islamic Banking has experienced a phenomenal growth and expansion in Bangladesh
in the backdrop of strong public demand and support for the system along with its gradually
increasing popularity across the world. As a result, a number of full-fledged Islamic Banks
has been established, while a good number of conventional banks have come forward to offer
services compliant with Islamic Shariah through opening of Islamic branches along with
conventional ones. There is also a trend of conversion of conventional banks into Islamic

bank.

It has, therefore, become necessary to ensure that activities of the fast growing
Islamic Banks are carried out properly and uniformly according to the principles of Islamic
Shariah. With this end in view, Bangladesh Bank constituted a Focus group comprising
representatives of the central Bank, a number of Islamic Banks and the Central Shariah Board
for Islamic Banks of Bangladesh to formulate an integrated guideline for conducting banking
business of the Islamic Bank/Islamic bank branches of conventional banks. Based on the
recommendations of the Focus group this guideline embodying different terminologies used
in Islamic Banking operations, definitions of the terminologies, the principles and modes of
deposits and investments has been prepared. It also dwelt upon the issues of liquidity,
maintenance of books of accounts and preparation of financial statements and other related
issues. This guideline has been prepared mainly on the basis of Banking Companies Act
1991, Companies Act 1994 and Prudential Regulations of Bangladesh Bank. However, this
guideline should be treated as supplementary, not a substitute, to the existing banking laws,
tules and regulations. Incase of any point not covered under this Guideline as also in case of
any contradiction, the instructions issued under the Banking Companies Act and Companies

Act will prevail.

Definitions of Terms used in Islamic Banking Operations

The following terms as used in this guideline, if not repugnant to the subject or
affairs, shall have the following meaning:

a. "Shariah" means such rules and regulations as have their origin in the holy Qur'an and
Sunnah to govern all aspects of human life.

b. "Islamic bank" means such a banking company or an Islamic banking branch(es) of a
banking company licensed by Bangladesh Bank, which follows the Islamic Shariah in
all its principles and modes of operations and avoids receiving and paying of interest
at all levels.

০. "Islamic Banking Business" means such banking business, the goals, objectives and
activities of which is to conduct banking business/activities according to the
principles of Islamic Shariah and no part of the business either in form and substance
has any elements not approved by Islamic Shariah.

d. "Branch or Branch Office" means any branch or Branch Office of Islamic Bank
Company or office or Branch of such interest based conventional Banks which run
Islamic banking business.

e "Depositor" means some one who holds with any Islamic Banking Company any
account namely Current account based on Al-Wadiah principles, Savings or long and
short term deposit accounts under Mudaraba principles.

f. "Investment" means any such modes of financing which Islamic Bank Company does
in accordance with principles of Shariah or as per the Shariah approved modes like
Mudaraba, Musharaka, Bai-Murabaha, Bai-Muaijjal, Istisna, Lease, Hire-purchase
under Shirkatul Melk, etc.

g. "Client" means such a person or institution who/which has any business relationship
with Islamic Banking Company.

h. "Compensation" means such financial penalty as is imposed by a Islamic Banking
Company over and above the amount of installment when a client fails to repay
Bank's investment on due dates as per the agreement executed by him.

Section II
LICENSE

Criteria for setting up full-fledged Islamic Bank.

The following will be the broad criteria for consideration of setting up of the
scheduled Islamic Commercial Bank:

The proposed bank company will be a public limited company and a minimum of
50% share shall be offered to the public.

All the financial transactions of the banking company shall be conducted based on the
principles of Islamic Shariah.

The ways and means of resource mobilization, expansion and nature of business
transactions have to be stated in the application form.

The applicant(s) shall indicate expertise and other facilities available with them for
ensuring operation of their Islamic Banking business as per Islamic Shariah.

The banking company, to commence business, shall raise a minimum paid-up capital
of Tk.2.00 billion and shall at all times maintain the required capital adequacy ratio,
as prescribed by the Bangladesh Bank.

The minimum shareholding stake of each sponsor shall be Tk.2.5 million and the
maximum shall be 10% of the proposed bank's total share capital. This ceiling of 10%
applies to an individual, company or family member, either severally and jointly or
both. Family includes spouse, father, mother, and son, daughter brother of the
individual or anyone dependent on that individual.

The Sponsors’ share shall not be transferred before expiry of 3(three) years from
commencement of the business without permission from Bangladesh Bank.

The ceiling of 10% may be relaxed in case of a bank set up as a joint venture with a
foreign financial institution or banking company.

Application shall stand disqualified if any of the sponsors and/or Directors, their
spouses or firms:-

has been convicted by a court of Law for commission of any criminal offence inside
or outside Bangladesh;

has been involved in any illegal activities, particularly illegal banking business,
receipt of deposits, financial dealings and other business;

has failed to settle liability/meet obligation to banks and other financial institutions.
They shall furnish names of the banks/ financial institutions along with the names of
the branches with which they have had dealings. Bank reports are also required to be
submitted;

has failed to pay tax/duties. They shall indicate their Tax identification numbers
(TIN),

is in the opinion of the sanctioning authority enjoys adverse reputation regarding
integrity and performance.

The Chief Executive (CE) would be a professional combined with at least 3 years
Islamic banking experience, and having complied with all the terms & conditions of
the "Fit & proper Test" issued by Bangladesh Bank and have no adverse information
regarding his integrity and performance. The appointment of the CE shall require
prior approval of the Central Bank.

The applicant shall submit the following documents along with the application:

a) Feasibility report with organizational structure for formation of the bank company and
proposed name of the Chief Executive Officer.

b) Short term & long term business plan.

c) Plans for Internal control management, Risks management guidelines and details of
the approval authority.

d) Working system and procedure for business activities/ operations.

e) List of other Companies/Firms and their bankers in which sponsor director(s) and
their family as defined in The Bank Company Act, 1991 are interested as_director(s),
Chief Executive, Partner, proprietor or major share holders holding 5% or more
shares.

The bank which may be permitted to be established shall be subject to the prevalent
banking and other laws, rules, regulations and directives issued by the Bangladesh
Bank from time to time.

The sponsors shall give an undertaking to the effect that the bank, if permitted, shall
comply with all instructions to be issued by Bangladesh Bank and the Govt. of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh from time to time.

All other terms and conditions as set by Bangladesh Bank for establishing a bank
company shall be applicable.

Terms & conditions for the conventional Banks to obtain License for opening
Islamic Banking Branch(es).

Conventional banks intending to open Islamic banking branch(es) shall fulfill the
following conditions:

1. Eligibility criteria:

The eligibility of a bank to open Islamic banking branch(es) shall be considered by the
Bangladesh Bank keeping in view, among others, the financial strength of the bank as
evident from its capital base(net capital free of actual and potential losses), adequacy
of its capital structure, record of earning capabilities, liquidity position, track record
of bank's adherence to prudential regulations, credit discipline, quality of customer
services and the convenience and the needs of the population of the area to be served
by the proposed branch. In addition, (1) banks must have CAMEL rating of 1/2 in the
last On-Site inspection of Bangladesh Bank and (2) there should not be major adverse
inspection findings against the bank.

2. Required working papers:

The applying bank is required to submit a proposal for opening Islamic branch(es) to
the concerned department of Bangladesh Bank with the following details:-
a) Specify the number of branches to operate in line with Islamic Shariah and the names
of the proposed towns / districts.

b)

০)

৫)

৪)

A statement of services and products to be offered (regarding deposits, investments,
financing etc.) by the Islamic banking branch(es).

Commitment to keep funds and accounts of Islamic banking branches completely
separate from those of the conventional ones.

Methods of segregating the funds of the Islamic branches from the funds of
commercial branches of the bank.

A Statement showing infrastructural and logistic facilities including manpower and
training.

f) Accounting aspects, such as accounting policies to be followed, the principles and

mechanism of profit / loss sharing / distribution.

g) Undertaking for preparing separate financial statement for the Islamic branches.

3.

a)

b)

০)

ii.

111.

iv.

Vi.

Formation of an Islamic Banking Division:

An Islamic Banking Division has to be set-up in the Head Office of the local Bank(s)
and in the Country Office (in Bangladesh) in case of foreign Bank(s).

An organizational structure of the division indicating qualifications and Islamic
Banking experiences of the top Executives is to be submitted to the concerned

division of Bangladesh Bank.

The responsibilities & duties of the Islamic Banking Division of the concerned Banks
would be as under:

Framing of Islamic Banking rules and regulations and ensuring their implementations.

Maintaining co-ordination with the Shariah Supervisory Committee, if any, and the
other divisions/offices of the Bank.

Ensuring investment of Funds received for Islamic Banking business under modes
approved by Islamic Shariah.

Arrangement is to be made to train up the manpower deployed in the Islamic banking
branch.

Submission of required statements to the Central Bank is to be ensured.

Ensuring of implementation of the guide-lines/rules and regulations concerning
Islamic banking framed/issued/instructed by the Central Bank.

vii. Maintaining of SLR/CRR according to the instructions of the Central Bank.

viii. Complying of any other responsibility(ies), the Central Bank may assign from time

to time.

0) A senior Executive would be the chief of Islamic Banking Division who shall remain
accountable to the CEO. This Division is to be provided with sufficient manpower.

4. Control and segregation of Islamic Banking Fund:

Separation of Funds of Islamic banking branches and control and pursuance of
appropriate procedures are to be ensured for safeguarding the interest of the
depositors. The following steps are to be taken to address the above issues:

a) An operational Manual for running Islamic banking business is to be prepared and got
duly approved by the Board of Directors of respective banks. In case of foreign
bank(s), it is to be approved by their Head Office.

b) A full set of documents pertaining to deposits, investments & financing products of
Islamic banking is to be prepared and followed.

c) Required documents, Forms, Books, and Deposit Receipts, cheque Books etc. of
Islamic branch (es) are to be designed in such a way as to make them distinct from
those used in conventional banking branches.

5. Maintenance of Accounts and Financial Statements:

a) The Banks have to maintain separate accounting system for their Islamic banking
branches. For this purpose, separate ledger books, software etc. are to be maintained
for keeping records of deposits, investments, profit & loss A/Cs, etc.

b) Separate trial Balance for daily transactions of Islamic banking branch (es) is to be
prepared and maintained.

c) The bank has to prepare and submit quarterly, half yearly and yearly Financial
Statements to Bangladesh Bank relating to the Islamic bank branch (es).

6. All other terms and conditions as set by Bangladesh Bank for opening of a bank
branch shall be applicable.

C. Conversion of a Conventional Bank to an Islamic Bank:
(A) | The necessary measures for conversion

1. The bank will set up all necessary procedures, create the required tools, explore
alternatives to non-permissible financial practices, and train and promote the
personnel required for proper implementation of the procedures of conversion.

2. The appropriate administrative arrangements must be in place, including changing the
bank's operating license by Bangladesh Bank, and amending the bank's memorandum
and articles of association through the required procedures so that they include
objectives and operational measures that are appropriate to Islamic banking. The
memorandum and articles of association must be cleansed from anything that
contradicts the nature of Islamic banking.

3. Restructuring the organizational structure of the bank and its employment procedures,
conditions and employee statutes to fit the situation of conversion.

4. Written consent/no objection through an acceptable legal process should be obtained
from the existing depositors and clients for transforming their accounts into Islamic
mode.

5. The transactions that are concluded before the decision to convert must be ceased or
disposed of immediately.

6. Reformatting or designing standard contracts or specimens or exemplars of
documents, forms, books, register etc. that comply with Shariah rules and principles.

7. Preparing a special program for preparing personnel and impart them training to deal
with the application of Islamic banking practices.

8. Exerting all possible efforts to adapt the ways of dealing with Central banks regarding
deposits, liquidity needs or otherwise in a way that does not conflict with the rules of
Shariah, especially rules that govern riba transactions.

9. Any dealings with conventional banks must be limited to the magnitude of the need to
do so.

10. Revamping the transactions with conventional banks on the basis of riba-free
transactions and the application of instruments acceptable by Shariah.

11. Before commencement of business of the converted Islamic bank, the books of
accounts and statement of affairs of the conventional bank must be reconstructed as
per Shariah principles.

(B) The effect of conversion on the interest based receivables, impermissible
earnings, obligation and their Shariah alternatives

1. All traces of conventional transactions whereby the bank originated any monetary
assets and is liable to pay interest for them must be liquidated prior to date of
conversion. This is the rule whether such transaction involve individuals, banks or
Central bank.

2. The bank must confine itself to permissible operations for acquiring the necessary
funds to operate or to meet its liabilities.

3. If the capital of the bank has increased due to non-permissible transactions or the
accumulation of reserves based on non-permissible transactions, then its treatment
must be in accordance with the treatment of non-permissible receivables or other non-
permissible assets in the possession of the bank.

4. All interest-based investment instruments must cease to be used and must be replaced
by permissible investment instruments prior to date of conversion.

5. All interest-based loans that the bank has made prior to date of conversion must be
terminated or converted to Shariah based transaction.

6. All liabilities in the form of obligation to provide non-permissible service must

be terminated by refunding the consideration, even if it has to pay compensation for
non-fulfillment of such obligations.

(C) Starting from the financial period in which the bank decides to convert, the
following must be done

1. Ifa conventional bank is acquired with the intention to convert it to an Islamic bank, the
new owners are not obliged to dispose of interest and impermissible

7

earnings that have been earned before such acquisition.

2.If a conventional bank is converted by its existing shareholders into a bank,
then the process of disposing of interest and impermissible earnings should
be considered as commencing at the beginning of the financial period in
which the conversion starts to take effect. However, for any impermissible
earnings that have been distributed prior to conversion, it is necessary, on
ethical grounds, for the shareholders and depositors to whom these earnings
have been distributed to dispose them of personally. The bank is not bound to do so.

3. Revenues not yet received that are of doubtful permissibility are not subject
to compulsory disposal, whether they were earned before or during the
financial period in which the bank decides to convert. The same rule applies
to revenues of doubtful permissibility that have been already received
because of a belief that they are permissible on the basis of (a) an
interpretation of a person who is qualified to perform ijtihad on issues that
are subject to personal Juristic interpretation, (b) Juristic position of an
authoritative school of Shariah or (c) the opinion of some eminent and
knowledgeable scholars.

4. If the bank has rights to prohibited non-monetary assets, it may receive them
with the intent to destroy them. If the bank is entitled to receive
consideration for supplying non-permissible assets or services, the bank may
receive the consideration with the intent to donate it to charity. The same rule
applies to any income that has been acquired from non-permissible assets
during the period in which the bank decides to convert. All impermissible and
doubtful earnings must be spent for charity.

5. If the bank is converted and it has, among its tangible assets, impermissible
commodities, the bank is obliged to destroy them. If the bank has sold some
of these commodities and is yet to receive the price thereof, the price must
be received and be spent for charity.

6. If the liabilities are in the form of payment of interest, the bank should
employ all lawful means to avoid paying such interest. This rule does not
apply to the principal amounts of debts or loans. The bank should not pay
interest except on the basis of dire need.

7. If the liabilities are in the form of obligations to provide non permissible
services, then the bank is obliged to make every effort to terminate such
liabilities, by refunding the consideration, even if it has to pay compensation
for non-fulfillment of such obligations.

(D) External conversion through acquisition of the bank by parties
interested in converting it

If the purchaser is capable of negotiating a deal that could exclude all non
permissible receivables (e.g. interest and non-permissible assets) from the
acquisition deal in a way that will make the seller solely liable for non-
permissible liabilities, then the Shariah requires the purchaser to do so.
However, if the acquisition cannot be concluded unless all assets of the bank
including the non-permissible assets and receivables are acquired, then there
is no objection to the acquisition on this basis on condition that the purchaser
acts as quickly as possible to dispose of non-permissible liabilities even if the
purchaser has to suggest to the creditors of the bank an earlier repayment for
a discount.

(£)

The Zakah Obligation

When the conversion is initiated by outsiders who acquired the conventional bank for
the purpose of converting it, then they are not obliged to make zakah payment for the
past financial periods because the zakah for previous periods is the liability of the
previous owners. The zakah liability will start to exist for the new owners from the
date of the decision to convert. However, if the decision to convert was made by the
shareholders and the zakah was not paid for the previous financial periods, the
shareholders are obliged to pay zakah for these periods. They must take into account
that they are obliged to pay zakah even if the revenues and the money earned are
impermissible because the shareholders are obliged in the first place to dispose of all
accrued interest and impermissible earnings, so, the payment of zakah is part of the
obligation to dispose of impermissible earnings and interest.

Section IIT
Responsibility for Shariah Compliance:

It will be the responsibility of the board of directors of the respective banks to ensure that the
activities of the banks and their products are Shariah compliant. The Board of the Islamic
banks/ Subsidiary company/Conventional commercial banks having Islamic branches,
therefore, be constituted with directors having requisite knowledge and expertise in Islamic
Jurisprudence. The Board may form an independent Shariah Supervisory Committee with
experienced and knowledgeable persons in Islamic Jurisprudence. However, the Board shall
be responsible for any lapses/irregularities on the part of the Shariah Supervisory Committee.
A fit and proper criteria for selection of members of the Shariah Supervisory Committee is

enclosed in Appendix-1.

10

Section IV

Principles of Deposit

Shariah principles for receiving deposits

Islamic banks receive deposits under two principles:
i) Al-Wadeeah principle.
ii) Mudaraba principle.

Al-Wadeeah:

Fund which is deposited with Banks by the depositors with clear permission to utilize /
invest the same is called Al-Wadeeah. Islamic banks receive deposits in Current Accounts on
the basis of this Al-Wadeeah Principle. Islamic banks obtain permission from the Al-
Wadeeah depositors to utilise the Funds at its own responsibility and the depositors would not
share any profit or loss earned/incurred out of using of this funds by the bank. The banks
have to pay back the deposits received on the principle of Al-Wadeeah on demand of the
holders. The depositors have to pay goverment taxes and other charges, if any.

Mudaraba:

Mudaraba is a partnership of labour and capital, where one partner provides full capital and
the other one manages the business. The capital provider is called Sahib-Al-Maal and the user
of the capital is called Mudarib. As per Shariah principles, the Mudarib will conduct the
business independently following Shariah principles. The Sahib-Al-Maal may provide
advices, if he deems fit but he can not impose any decision over the Mudarib. Profit, if any, is
divisible between the Sahib-Al-Maal and the Mudarib at a predetermined ratio, while loss, if
any, is borne by the Sahib-Al-Maal. Mudarib can not avail of any salary or remuneration
against his labour as a manager or conductor of the enterprise/business. The deposits,
received by Islamic banks under this principle are called Mudaraba Deposits. Here, the
depositors are called Sahib-Al-Maal and the bank is called Mudarib. The Mudaraba deposits
include:

i) Mudaraba Savings Deposits (MSD)
ii) Mudaraba Short Notice Deposits (MSND)
iii) Mudaraba Term Deposits (MTD).

Different Islamic banks have developed various deposit schemes on the basis of this
Mudaraba principle such as monthly deposit-based Hajj Scheme, Monthly/One time deposit-
based Term Deposit Scheme, Monthly Mudaraba Profit Deposit Scheme, Monthly Mudaraba
Marriage Savings Scheme, Mudaraba Savings Bond etc.

11

Section V

Investment Principles & Investment Products

Islamic banks do not directly deal in money. They run business with money. The funds of
Islamic banks are mainly invested in the following modes:

1) Mudaraba;

2) Musharaka;

3) Bai-Murabaha (Murabaha to the purchase orders);
4) Bai-Muaijjal;

5) Salam and parallel Salam;
6) Istisna and parallel Istisna;
7) 10918;

8) Tjarah Muntahia Bittamleek (Hire Purchase);

9) Hire Purchase Musharaka Mutanaqisa (HPMM);
10) Direct Investment;

11) — Investment Auctioning etc.

12) Quard

13) — Quard Hassan etc.

1. Mudaraba: Mudaraba is a shared venture between labour and capital. Here Bank
provides with entire capital and the investment client conducts the business. The
Bank, provider of capital, is called Sahib-Al-Maal and the client is called Mudarib.
The profit is to be distributed between the Bank and the investment client at a
predetermined ratio while the bank has to bear the entire loss, if any.

2. Musharaka: Musharaka means partnership business. Every partner has to provide
more or less equity funds in this partnership business. Both the Bank and the
investment client reserve the right to share in the management of the business. But the
Bank may opt to permit the investment client to operate the whole business. In
practice, the investment client normally conducts the business. The profit is divided
between the bank and the investment client at a predetermined ratio. Loss, if any, is to
be borne by the bank and the investment client according to capital ratio.

3. Bai-Murabaha: Contractual buying and selling at a mark-up profit is called
Murabaha. In this case, the client requests the Bank to purchase certain goods for him.
The Bank purchases the goods as per specification and requirement of the client. The
client receives the goods on payment of the price which includes mark-up profit as per
contract. Under this mode of investment the purchase/ cost price and profit are to be
disclosed separately.

4. Bai-Muajjal:
Meaning: "Bai-Muajjal" means sale for which payment is made at a future fixed date
or within a fixed period. In short, it is a sale on Credit.

It is a contract between a buyer and a seller under which the seller sells certain
specific goods (permissible under Shariah and Law of the Country), to the buyer at an
agreed fixed price payable at a certain fixed future date in lump sum or within a fixed
period by fixed installments. The seller may also sell the goods purchased by him as
per order and specification of the buyer.

12

৪)

b)

In Bank's perspective, Bai-Muajjal is treated as a contract between the Bank and the
Client under which the bank sells to the Client certain specified goods, purchased as
per order and specification of the Client at an agreed price payable within a fixed
future date in lump sum or by fixed installments.

Salam and Parallel Salam: Salam means advance purchase. It is a mode of business
under which the buyer pays the price of the goods in advance on the condition that the
goods would be supplied / delivered at a particular future time. The seller supplies the
goods within the fixed time.

Parallel Salam:

Parallel Salam is a Salam contract whereby the seller depends, for executing his
obligation, on receiving what is due to him - in his capacity as purchaser from a sale
in a previous Salam contract, without making the execution of the second Salam
contract dependent on the execution of the first one.

The following conditions are essential in the contracts of Murabaha, Bai-Muajjal and
Salam. The respective contracts must include the following aspects regarding the
goods:

Number/Quantity

Quality

Sample

Price and amount of profit

Date of supply/time limit

Place of supply

Who will bear the cost of supply?

Timeframe for payment in case of Bai-Murabaha and Bai-Muaijjal.

* 4 % He HK

Istisna and parallel Istisna: A contract executed between a buyer and a seller under
which the seller pledges to manufacture and supply certain goods according to
specification of the buyer is called Istisna. An Istisna agreement is executed when a
manufacturer or a factory owner accepts a proposal placed to him by a person or an
Institution to produce/manufacture certain goods for the latter at a certain negotiated
price.

Here, the person giving the order is called Mustasni, the receiver of the order is called
Sani and the goods manufactured as per order is called Masnu.

An order placed for manufacturing or producing those goods which under prevailing
customs and practice are produced or manufactured will be treated as Istisna contract.

Conditions & characteristics of Istisna are enumerated below:

The concerned Agreement must contain the details, such as, the type, class, quantity
and features of the goods to be produced, so that no misunderstanding is created later
on.

The price has to be settled; payment time/schedule and modes thereof is to be
predetermined.

13

০) When, where and on whose cost the goods to be supplied has to be clearly mentioned.

d) If agreed by both parties, payment may be made in advance to the seller in part or in
full or may be deferred to be paid in due course/ agreed time.

e) Generally timeframe is not mandatory for supplying the goods under Istisna
agreement. It may be executed without determining timeframe. But in case of bank,
timeframe for supplying goods must be determined to avoid any dispute in future.

f) Condition for imposing stipulated compensation/penalty may be included in the
Istisna agreement against the party who breaches the terms of the agreement causing
the other party to suffer. But no compensation/penalty would be imposed on any party
if it happens for any valid reason or unavoidable circumstances.

g) As per opinion of the contemporary jurists, the compensation in case of Istisna may
be treated as legal income.

Parallel Istisna:

If it is not stipulated in the contract that the seller himself would produce/provide the
goods or services, then the seller can enter into another contract with third party for
getting the goods or services produced/ provided by the third party. Such a contract is
called Parallel Istisna. This may be treated as a sub-contract. The main features of this
contract are:-

i) The original Istisna contract remains valid even if the Parallel Istisna contract fails
and the seller will be legally liable to produce/ provide the goods or services
mentioned in the Istisna contract.

ii) Istisna and Parallel Istisna contracts are treated as two separate contracts.
iii) The seller under the Istisna contract will remain liable for failure of the sub-contract.

7. 11919 : The mode under which any asset owned by the bank, by creation, acquirement
/ or building-up is rented out is called 11819 or leasing. In this mode, the leasee pays
the Bank rents at a determined rate for using the assets/properties and returns the same
to the Bank at the expiry of the agreement. The Bank retains absolute ownership of
the assets/properties in such a case. However, at the end of the leased period, the asset
may be sold to the client at an agreed price.

8. Ijarah Muntahia Bittamleak (Hire-Purchase): Under this mode, the bank
purchases vehicles, machineries and instruments, building, apartment etc. and
allowed clients to use those on payment of fixed rents in installments with the
ultimate objective to sell the asset to the client at the end of the rental period . The
client acquires the ownership/ title of the assets/ properties subject to full payment/
adjustment of all the installments.

9. Hire-purchase Musharaka Mutanaqasa (HPMM): Hire-purchase Musharaka
Mutanaqasa means purchasing and acquiring ownership by one party by sharing in
equity and paying rents for the rest of the equity held by the Bank/or other party.
Under this mode, the Bank and the client on contract basis jointly purchase vehicles,
machineries, building, apartment etc. The client uses the portion of the assets owned

14

by the bank on rental basis and acquires the ownership of the same assets by way of
paying banks portion of the equity on the assets in installments together with its rents
as agreed upon.

The features of this mode are elaborated below:

a) The client applies to the Bank expressing his/her wishes to purchase the
assets/properties and the bank accords its approval after proper evaluation/ scrutiny.

b) The client deposits his/her share of equity with the bank after obtaining
approval and the bank pays total price of the assets/properties together with its
equity.

০) Before purchase of the assets/properties an agreement is executed stipulating
the actual prices, monthly rents, price of the bank's portion of the assets/properties,
payment schedule and installment amount and the nature of the security etc.

d) The bank shall rent out its own portion of the assets/properties to the client as
per terms & conditions of the agreement.

e) The client (Hirer) pays off in installments bank's portion of equity on the
assets together with its fixed rent as per the terms and conditions of the agreement.

f) With the payment of installments by the client, the ownership of the bank in
the assets/properties gradually diminishes, while that of the client increases.

g) The amount of the rent receivable by the bank, reduces gradually
proportionate to the increase in the ownership of the client on the assets/properties.

h) The client acquires full ownership of the goods/assets after payment of the
entire dues of the bank.

i) The client may acquire the full ownership of the assets/properties before
expiry of the deal by paying off the entire dues to the bank.

j) The rent remains payable in proportion to Bank's ownership, if the client fails
to pay the due installment(s).

k) The bank can take of the assets / properties under its control, if the client fails
to pay the installment(s) as per the terms and conditions of the agreement.

L) The ownership of the assets/properties remains with the bank until the entire
equity provided by the bank together with the fixed rent is fully paid off. On full
payment/ adjustment of Bank's dues, it transfers the ownership to the client.

m) The amount which the bank receives as rent is its income. The rent should not
treat as a part of the equity in any way.

10. Direct Investment: Under this mode, the bank can under its full

proprietorship conduct business by directly investing in the industries, trading,
transports etc. In these cases, the profit/loss fully goes to the bank.

15

11. Investment Auctioning: Selling by auction of those assets/goods acquired by
the bank through direct investment is called Investment auctioning. Generally, the
bank establishes industrial units by direct investment, makes the same operationally
profitable and then sells out on auction. This mode of investment is very helpful for
industrialization of the country.

12. Quard:
It is a mode to provide financial assistance/ loan with the stipulation to return the
principal amount in the future without any increase thereon.

13. Quard Hassan:

This is a benevolent loan that obliges a borrower to repay the lender the principal
amount borrowed on maturity. The borrower, however, has the discretion to reward
the lender for his loan by paying any amount over and above the amount of the
principal provided there will be no reference (explicit or implicit) in this regard.

If a bank provides its client any loan, it can receive actual expenditure relating to the
loan as service charge only once. It can not charge annually at a percentage rate.

If a loan is provided against the money deposited by a client in the bank, it has the

right not to pay any profit against the amount of money given as loan. But profit
should be paid on the rest of the amount deposited as per previous agreement.

16

৪)

b

৮

০)

Investment System for import/export business
as per Islamic Shariah

Import Business :

The import business is broadly divided into the following three categories:-
i) Import of Commercial goods.

ii) Import of raw materials for production purpose.

111) Import of capital / machineries.

The importers avail of investment facilities against all kinds of imports. But in case of
imports under category (i) and (ii), investments are made under the Shariah approved
Bai-Murabaha and Bai-Muajjal modes and in case of import under category (iii),
investment is made under the Shariah compliant mode of Hire Purchase under
Shirkatul Melk (HPSM). Investment facilities are also provided for import business
through Bai-Salam, Musharaka and Mudaraba modes. Besides, the Islamic banks will
fully abide by the national and international norms and guidelines relating to
export/import business.

Import under the Bai-Murabaha system

Definition of the Bai-Murabaha: Bai-Murabaha is a contract between a buyer and a
seller under which the seller sells certain specific goods permissible under Islamic
Shariah and law of the land to the buyer at a price determined by charging agreed
profit, margin or mark-up over the cost price. In this case, the buyer either makes cash
payment to receive the goods or is allowed to make payment by instalments or on a
fixed future date. The profit mark-up may be fixed in lump sum or in percentage over
the cost price of the goods.

Some important features of the Bai-Murabaha mode of investment

The client (buyer) requests the bank to purchase particular goods and promises to
purchase the same from the bank at a price fixed by charging profit over the cost
price.

Under the Bai-Murabaha mode of investment there is no scope to increase the price
once it is fixed.

After buying the goods, the Bank has to bear all the risk until goods are actually
delivered to the client.

Import of goods under Bai-Murabaha mode of investment

In the import business, the importer provides an irrevocable letter of authority to the
Bank to import specific goods on behalf of him (the client) from the foreign seller and
promises to buy the same from the Bank. In this case, the Bank is designated as a
consignee in the Bill of lading and later on the Bank hands over the same to the
importer through endorsement i.e. the ownership of the goods is transferred to the
importer. As per uniform customs and practices, the seller lodges his claim or places
claim for dues to the buyer's Bank through the bill of exchange and the buyer’s bank
discharges the claim on behalf of the buyer. The above import system is fully
approved/ supported by the Islamic Shariah.

17

৪)

b

৮

1.3 Investment in imports by Islamic Banks

In the import business, Bai-Murabaha investment is accomplished through a single
deal at the time of opening L/C, Bills and Shipment. For example:

a) Murabaha Import L/C
b) Murabaha Import Bills
০) Murabaha Post Import.

1.4 Murabaha Post Import (MPI)

The importers apply for investment facility against imported goods after shipment for
payment of the invoice values of the goods to the seller/supplier including custom
duty, VAT and other expenses. In such a case, Islamic banks allow a Bai-Murabaha
investment facility under single deal concept. It is so called as the Letter of Credit.
Bills and the handling of Post-shipment are settled under one agreement while
opening the letter of credit for importing the goods.

Accounting procedure for purchase price, profit and sale price
Price payable to the supplier

Other expenses related with purchase
i) Conveyance - TA/DA

ii) Commission payable to the agents.

111) The expenditures in connection with 30100011০15 payment.

iv) Transportation cost up to the Bank’s godown.

v) Transit Insurance and other expenses.

vi) Godown rent and salary of officials etc. incurred before sale of goods.

18

Additional expenses

1. Duty

2. VAT

3. License fee

4. Commission for C&F agent etc.
০) Cost price or total value = a+b

d) Estimated profit/Mark-up profit (profit percentage on purchase/cost price)
e) Sale price =c+d

f) The net Investment amount is determined after deduction of the down
payment (if any ) from figure at "e" above.

Import under the Bai-Muajjal mode of investment

2.1. The term Bai-Muajjal means "deferred payment sale" or "Sale on
Credit"

Under this mode of investment a contract is made between the buyer and seller for
buying and selling of goods approved by Islamic Shariah and law of the land on the
stipulation to pay the agreed price at a specific future date or by fixed installments.

2.2 Some important features of the Bai-Muajjal mode of investment

Most of the features of Bai-Murabaha and Bai-Muaijjal are alike excepting the following:
1. Bai-Muajjal sale is executed completely on deferred payment system

2. The sale price is determined adding the profit with cost price. It is not necessary to
disclose the cost price and the profit mark-up separately to the client. But in Bai-
Murabaha, the cost price and the profit mark-up ratios are to be disclosed separately
to the client.

3. The accounting procedure for imported goods under both the Bai-Muajjal and Bai-
Murabaha mode are alike. But so far as contract is concerned they are different. Bai-
Murabaha contract and Bai-Muajjal contract are executed for imports under Bai-
Murabaha and Bai-Muajjal modes respectively.

3. Import under _diminishin: roprietorship method (Hire Purchase under

Shirkatul Melk-HPSM)

Capital machineries and other re-usable goods are imported under this mode. It
combines three modes: rent (Ijara), partnership (Shirkat) and buying and selling.

a) The Bank and the client invest their capital jointly through a contract called
partnership (Shirkat).

19

০) The bank leases its portion at a certain rent.

c) The Bank sells its portion to the client on receipt of the price under this system.

Import under Musharaka mode of investment:

4.1. Definition of Musharaka: Musharaka is a Shariah compliant mode of
investment wherein the bank and the client jointly provide the capital. Here no pre-
fixed profit is earmarked like in Bai-Murabaha or Bai-Muaijjal. Profit, if any, is
distributed as per agreement between the client and the bank while the loss, if any, is
shared according to capital ratio.

4.2. Some general features of Musharaka mode of investment :

a) The Musharaka agreement shall clearly laid down the amount of capital investment to
be provided by the bank and the client and the profit/ loss sharing ratio as agreed
between them.

b

৮

The actual profit of the business is to be distributed between the bank and the client as
per the agreed ratio. But loss, if any, is to be borne by them as per ratio of the capital.

c) The client shall properly maintain ledger, register, books of accounts etc. and have to
show those to any authorized person of the bank on demand.

d

২

For the success of client's business the bank shall have the right to give any decision
and supervise the business activities.

4.3. Before establishing Letter of Credit, the bank shall receive an application
from the client in prescribed form which shall include the following aspects:

a) The price of goods to be imported, C&F price as per quotation/indent.

b) Wholesale/retail price of every unit/ton/bag/carton.

c) Import cost including estimated import expenditures.

d) Expected sale price of imported goods.

e) Per unit/ton/bag/cartoon expected sale price of the imported goods.

f) Particulars of any other expenditure in addition to the import cost.

g) Estimated net profit.

h) Capital and profit /loss sharing ratios.

4.4, The Bank shall, thereafter, receive the equity portion of the client and after
completion of documentation shall make payment against the import liability and all
expenses related to it as per the Musharaka agreement. If there is profit, bank shall

receive its share of profit as per agreement and in case of loss, shall bear the same
according to capital ratio.

20

4.5. Fixation of liability in case of loss:

If loss is incurred after performing all duties and responsibilities as per agreement,
then the loss would be borne by the bank and the client according to capital ratio. But
if the loss is incurred due to carelessness, negligence or breach of any condition by the
client, then the client would be liable to bear the loss.

5. Import under Mudaraba mode of investment:

5.1. Definition of Mudaraba: Under the Mudaraba mode of investment, the client
or businessman or capital user does not invest any capital. In this case, the bank alone
invests all the required capital and the entrepreneur (the client) directly manages and
looks after the business.

5.2. Under this mode, the bank bears all the expenditures related to imports. In this
case, the Bank supervises the use of capital, system of business operation and income
of the business etc. The client maintains all the registers, documents and accounts
concerning buying & selling of the goods.

5.3. In this case, profit, if any, is distributed between the bank and the client as per
the agreed ratio and loss is fully borne by the Bank.

Investment in exports:

To accomplish export process/ order as per the terms and conditions of the letter of credit
(L/C) and the agreement executed between the seller and buyer, an exporter needs
financial and other banking facilities on urgent basis. So, it is one of the important

functions of a bank to provide investment and banking facilities to the exporter at
different stages of export business.

An exporter needs financial facilities at two stages of export process. such as:

a) At pre-shipment stage, and
b) At post-shipment stage.

Hence, financial facilities to export sector may be classified as:

a) Pre-shipment Finance.
b) Post-shipment Finance.

Financial assistance/ facilities complying Shariah principles are provided at both the
stages of export process.

Investment at Pre-Shipment stage as per Islamic Shariah:

An exporter needs various financial facilities till shipment of goods. Finance is
needed for procurement of raw materials and to meet transportation and other related cost
upto shipment.

Pre-shipment facilities are generally provided for the following purposes:

21

i) To procure raw-materials.

ii) To process the exportable goods.

iii) For transportation and packaging.

iv) For payment of insurance premium.

v) For payment of water, electricity and gas bills etc.

vi) For payment of wages and salary/bonus to employees.

vii) For payment of freight of the ship.

Shariah compliant modes for Pre-shipment Finance:

1.

2.

3.

Back to Back Letter of Credit (Back to Back L/C)

Bank extends Back to Back letter of credit (L/C) facility to exporters to procure/import
raw-materials for producing/manufacturing exportable goods at _pre-shipment stage
under the mode of Bai-Muaijjal. Initially, no financial facility from the Bank is required
when the back to back L/C is opened. But if the exporter fails to pay the L/C value at
maturity or on due date, the bank provides financial facilities to the client under Bai-
Muajjal mode.

Bai-Murabaha TR (Trust Receipt) :

To procure/purchase raw-materials for executing export order the bank provides
investment facilities to the client under the mode of Murabaha TR. In this case, the bank
obtains Trust Receipt signed by the client and handover the imported goods to the
exporter.

Bai-Salam :

3.1 Under the Bai-Salam mode of investment, payment is made in advance to purchase the

goods and the supplier makes promise to deliver the goods at a future date.

3.2 Investment under Bai-Salam mode is made to meet other expenses of the exporter

excepting the manufacturing cost of exportable goods. The Bank purchases a portion of
the exportable goods under the Bai-Salam mode and makes advance payment for the
same on the condition that arrangements will be made by the exporter to export the goods
purchased by the bank along with other goods of the exporter.

3.3 Fixing purchase price of the goods and recovery of bank's investment:

The purchase price is determined by deducting estimated profit of Bank's purchased
portion of the exportable goods. The bank recovers its dues after realization of export
proceeds.

22

4. Musharaka:

Pre-shipment investment may be made under Musharaka mode of investment if there is
any pre-determined investment arrangement.

5. Post-Shipment Investment :

Bank provides post-shipment investment facilities through Negotiation (FBN) and
purchase of export bills. It normally negotiates or purchases the export documents if the
documents/bills prepared by the exporter are found in order/correct in all respect. The
bank adjusts the liabilities against FBN/FBP after receiving the export proceeds and earns
exchange income from this. This mode of investment is in compliance with the Islamic
Shariah.

23

a)

b)

Other functions:

Remittance or Money Transfer:

Islamic banks can transfer money through D.D, T.T, T.C etc. and collect the bills
(cheque, Draft, Payment order etc.) and realise commission or service charges within the
norms of Shariah.

Miscellaneous Banking Services:

Islamic banks can render miscellaneous banking services like locker services, receipt and
payment of clients bills, issuance of Guarantee and working as agents of clients against

commission or service charges. Collection of service charges or commissions for
rendering those services are permissible under Shariah.

24

Section VI

Maintenance of CRR/SLR

All Islamic Banking Companies shall maintain Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and
Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) as per rates prescribed by Bangladesh Bank from time to
time. Every commercial Bank having Islamic bank branches shall maintain SLR/CRR for its
Islamic branches at the same rate as prescribed for the Islamic banks and shall, for the
purpose, maintain a separate Current Account for the Islamic branches with Bangladesh
Bank.

Addressing of liquidity crisis and utilization of surplus fund of the Islamic Banks:

In case of liquidity surplus and crisis the banks can take recourse to the following:

1. The excess liquidity of the Islamic banks/ Islamic branches of conventional Scheduled
banks may be invested in the ‘Bangladesh Government Islamic Investment Bond’
(slamic Bond introduced by the Government). In the same way, Islamic
banks/branches facing liquidity crisis can tide over the crisis by availing of investment
from Islamic Bond fund as per the prescribed rules.

2. In case Islamic banks/branches have surplus/ enough investment in the Islamic
Investment Bond and subsequently faces liquidity crisis then the bank / branch may
overcome the crisis by availing of investment facilities from Islamic Bond Fund
against lien of their over purchased Islamic Bonds. To meet the crisis, REPO system
may also be introduced for the Islamic Bonds.

3. The Islamic banks/branches having no surplus investment in 'Bangladesh Govt.
Islamic Investment Bond’ at the time of their liquidity crisis, if arises, may availed
funds from Bangladesh Bank at a provisional rate on profit on its respective
Mudaraba Short Notice Deposit Accounts which will be adjusted after finalization of
Accounts and rate of profit of the concerned Islamic banks/branches. But till funds
generated from sell of Islamic Investment Bonds remain available for investment such
financial support may not be available from Bangladesh Bank.

25

The Islamic banks/branches may open/ maintain Mudaraba SND accounts with each
other and can meet liquidity crisis by receiving deposits in the Mudaraba SND
account at MSND rate from those having surplus liquidity.

To meet the liquidity crisis, if any, of the Islamic branches of the conventional
commercial bank fund may be collected from sources which follow Islamic Shariah.

26

Section VII

Preparation of Financial Statements:

All the Islamic banks/Islamic branches of the conventional commercial banks shall
prepare financial statements and provide information as per enclosed guideline
(Appendix-ID.

27

Section VIII

Framework of Rate of Return:

Under Mudaraba principles, profit accrued from investment and financing are shared
between the depositors and the bank based on pre-agreed profit ratio. Losses, if any,
will be borne by the depositor unless the loss is due to the negligence by the bank in
managing the depositors’ funds.

Given this unique relationship where the depositors would have a direct financial
interest over the bank's income, it is essential to ensure calculation of rate of return in
a fair and equitable manner. To this end, a standard framework for calculation of rate
of return is enclosed in Appendix-III.

28

