FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

Financing Solutions
For Micro, Small And Medium Enterprises
In Bangladesh

নী pri ey


© 2019 The World Bank Group

1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000
Internet: www.worldbank.org
All rights reserved.

This volume is a product of the staff and external authors of the World Bank Group. The World Bank
Group refers to the member institutions of the World Bank Group: The World Bank (International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development); International Finance Corporation (IFC); and
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), which are separate and distinct legal entities
each organiged under its respective Articles of Agreement. We encourage use for educational and
non-commercial purposes.

The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this volume do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Directors or Executive Directors of the respective institutions of the World Bank
Group or the governments they represent. The World Bank Group does not guarantee the accuracy
of the data included in this work.

Rights and Permissions

The material inthis publication is copyrighted. Copying and/or transmitting portions or all of this work
without permission may be a violation of applicable law. The World Bank encourages dissemination
of its work and will normally grant permission to reproduce portions of the work promptly.

All queries on rights and licenses, including subsidiary rights, should be addressed to the Office

of the Publisher, The World Bank Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA;
fax: 202-522-2422; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.

Cover Photo: Gagi Nafis Anmed/ IFC. Insides Photo Credits: World Bank and IFC Photo Libraries

FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS Vv
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Vil
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY IX
Il. MSMES: IMPORTANCE AND FINANCING CONSTRAINTS 1
Introduction 1
MSMEs in Bangladesh 1
Classification 1
Structure and Role 2
The Financing Challenge 8
MSME financing constraints 3
Formal Credit Supply for MSMEs 4
Estimated Financing Gap for Microenterprises 7
Estimated Financing Gap for SMEs
Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS 9
The Regulatory and Financing Policies 9
Institutional Coordination ও)
Regulatory Policies ও)
Financing Policies and Schemes 11
Effectiveness 15
Policy Recommendations 16
The Financial Infrastructure Gaps 18
Credit Reporting 18
Secured Transactions and Collateral Registries 20
nsolvency and Debt Resolution 21
Payment Systems 22
Policy Recommendations 22
Exploring Innovative and Alternative Financing Options 23
Risk-sharing Facilities 23
Alternative financial instruments 25
Fintech Solutions 27
Policy Recommendations 29
Ill. CONCLUSIONS 31

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


ANNEXES 33
Annex 1. Definition and Classification of MSMEs 33
Annex 2. MSME Structure and Roles (2013 Bangladesh Economic Census) 34
Annex 3. Estimation of the Small Enterprise Financing Gap Using Bangladesh Bank

Loan Data 35
Annex 4. Roles and Activities of Agencies Supporting MSMEs 37
Annex 5. General Principles for Credit Reporting Systems 39
Annex 6. Principles for Credit Guarantee Schemes for SMEs 40
Annex 7. Fintech Solutions A

REFERENCES 37

ENDENOTES 45

LIST OF BOXES
Box 1: An Approach Framework to State Intervention and State-owned Banks 12
Box 2: MSME Segmentation and Prospects from a Bank’s Perspective 15
Box 3: Lessons of Positive Adaptive Experiences 17
Box 4: India’s Experience with Private Sector-led CIBs 19
Box 5: International Examples of Successful Secured Transaction Reforms 20
Box 6: Credit Guarantee Schemes in India and Thailand 24
Box 7: The United States Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) 26
Box 8: Kenya’s Success with Fintech companies 28
Box 9: General Principles for Credit Reporting Systems (CRS) 39
Box 10: Recommendations for Effective Oversight 40

LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: Distribution of Employment 3
Figure 2: Average Labor Productivity 2013 (Tk 000) 3
Figure 3: Microcredit Members, June 2016 (million) 5
Figure 4: Distribution of Membership by Gender (%) 5
Figure 5: Loans Disbursed, June 2016 5
Figure 6: Average Loan Sige, June 2016 5
Figure 7: Expansion of Banking Sector MSME Lending (Tk billion) 6
Figure 8: Distribution of Formal MSME Credit by Economic Activities, June 2016 (%) 6

LIST OF TABLES
Table 1: Financial Inclusion Indicators, by Country, South Asia IX
Table 2: Unified MSME Definition Adopted under the 2016 Industrial Policy 2
Table 3: MSME Loans Outstanding as a Share of Total Loans 6
Table 4: Average Demand for Loans Among Microenterprises 7
Table 5: Loan Supply for Microenterprises, June 2016 7

ow TABLE OF CONTENTS

Table 6: IFC Estimates of Financing Gap, 2011 versus 2017 8
Table 7: State Intervention Rationales 13
Table 8: SOF] Institutional Typologies 13
Table 9: SOFI Instrument Typologies 14
Table 10: Efficiency of the Bangladesh Regulatory Regime, 2018 — Getting Credit 18
Table 11: Definition of MSME in the 2003 Economic Census 33
Table 12: Definition of MSMEs in the Bangladesh 2010 Industrial Policy 33
Table 13: Bangladesh Bank Definition of Small Enterprises 34
Table 14: Updated Definition of MSMEs by the Bangladesh Bank, 2016 34
Table 15: Sige and Employment of Enterprises in Bangladesh, 2013 35
Table 16: Distribution of Enterprises by Major Economic Activities, 2013 (numbers in*‘000) 35
Table 17: Banking Sector Loan Disbursements to SMEs 35
Table 18: Small Enterprise Financing Gap 36

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH i


FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB Asian Development Bank

ADR Alternative Dispute Resolution

BACH Bangladesh Automated Clearing House

BASIC Bank for Small Industries and Commerce

BBS Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics

BFID Bank and Financial Institutions Division (Ministry of Finance)

BIAC Bangladesh International Arbitration Center

BPC Business Promotion Council

BSCIC Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation

IB Credit Information Bureau

CGS Credit Guarantee Scheme

CIB Credit Information Bureau

010 Credit Information Companies

CRS Credit Reporting System

DFS Digital Financial Services

ECGS Export Credit Guarantee Scheme

EFT Electronic Funds Transfer

EGBMP Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project

FCI Finance, Competitiveness, and Innovation

FIRST Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening Initiative (World Bank)

FSPDSME Financial Sector Project for the Development of Small and Medium-
Sized Enterprises

FY Fiscal Year

GDP Gross Domestic Product

ICT Information and Communication Technologies

IDLC Industrial Development Leasing Company

IFC International Finance Corporation

IFI International Financial Institution

InM Institute for Inclusive Finance and Development

JCAP Joint Capital Markets Initiative

JICA Japan International Cooperation Agency

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH ৬.
৬

JPY
LFS
MFIs
MFS
MOI
MRA
MSME
NBFI
NGO
NPL
NSDC
OECD
PFI
PRI
R&D
RMG
RSF
SBA
SBIC
১05
SEF
SMEs
SMEDP
SMEF
SMESDP
SOB
SOFI
STR
Tk
TSL
UK
USAID
USS
VC
WBG

Japanese Yen

Labor Force Survey

Microfinance Institutions

Mobile Financial Services

Ministry of Industry

Micro-Credit Regulatory Authority
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Non-bank Financial Institution
Non-governmental Organization
Non-Peforming Loan

National SME Development Council
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
Partner Financial Institutions

Policy Research Institute

Research and Development
Ready-made Garment

Risk-Sharing Facility

Small Business Administration

Small Business Investment Company
Small and cottage industry

Small Enterprise Fund

Small and Medium Enterprises

The Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise Development Project
SME Foundation

Small and Medium Enterprise Sector Development Project
State-owned banks

State-owned financial institution

Secured Transaction Law

Bangladeshi taka

Two-Step Loan

United Kingdom

United States Agency for International Development
United States Dollar

Venture Capital

World Bank Group

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Global Practice team, led by Mihasonirina Andrianaivo (Senior Financial Sector Specialist),

Ta report was prepared by the World Bank’s Finance, Competitiveness, and Innovation (FCI)

11195 Skamnelos (Lead Financial Sector Specialist) and Aminata Ndiaye (Financial Sector

Specialist).

It is based on the findings of a report produced by
the Policy Research Institute (PRI) of Bangladesh,
with inputs from the World Bank, including a
desk review and a field mission in August 2017.
The data collection, analysis, and interviews with
government officials and stakeholders, as well
as the formulation of policy recommendations,
were made possible thanks to the dedication and
diligence of Sadiq Ahmed and his team at PRI.

The report was prepared as a sub-task of the
Bangladesh Financial Sector Development
Programmatic Approach. The team is grateful for
the overall guidance and advice of its Task Team
Leader Korotoumou Ouattara (Senior Financial
Sector Specialist). This report owes much to
Simon Bell (Global Lead for SME finance) who
led an initial knowledge-sharing mission with the
Bangladesh authorities and provided guidance and
feedback on earlier versions of the work.

Inputs were provided by Ananya Kader (Senior
Financial Sector Specialist), Colin Raymond
(Lead Financial Sector Specialist), Nina Pavlova
Mocheva (Senior Financial Sector Specialist),
Murat Sultanov (Senior Financial Sector
Specialist), Ashutosh Tandon (Financial Sector

Specialist) and Muhammad Mustafizur Rahman
(Consultant). The report also benefited from the
guidance of Harish Natarajan (Lead Financial
Sector Specialist), Shah Nur Quayyum (Senior
Financial Sector Specialist) and A.K.M. Abdullah
(Senior Financial Sector Specialist).

The team is also grateful to the peer reviewers,
including Ghada 0. Teima (Lead Financial
Sector Specialist) and Alper Ahmet Oguz (Senior
Financial Sector Specialist) for their valuable
comments.

The team would like to express its particular
appreciation to Qimiao Fan (Country Director,
Bangladesh), Esperanza Lasagabaster (Practice
Manager, FCI South Asia region) and Christian
Eigen-Zucchi (Program Leader, Equitable Growth,
Finance and Institutions [EFI]) for their overall
guidance and review. The team would also like
to thank all government officials and stakeholders
who patiently responded to interview questions.
We also thank Aichin Lim Jones for design and
production services, Barbara Balaj for editorial
support, as well as Vanda Melecky and Aza Rashid
for their operational support.

Note: This paper summariges the main outcomes of a survey that received responses from 10 countries. Because of confi-
dentiality restrictions, the country specific results have been made anonymous in the present report

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

Vil


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

fundamental challenge at the heart of a country’s financial and economic development;

[tise access to finance for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) is a

debates continue over the design and effectiveness of MSME policy. This report presents a desk
review of the financing gap, constraints and policies related to the MSME financing in Bangladesh.
It aims to provide relevant policy recommendations at a critical time when past policies can be
objectively evaluated, and as innovative and alternative instruments emerge, thereby presenting as a
unique opportunity to address these financing challenges.

Despite significant knowledge gaps, MSMEs
are undoubtedly the backbone of non-farm job
creation in Bangladesh. The country lacked a
uniform MSME definition until the 2016 Industria
Policy. It now needs to promote this as a unified
definition at the policy level, while also improving
relevant data collection and analysis. Nevertheless,
the 2013 Economic Census and Enterprise Survey
of the same year provide important insights. Some
99 percent of all non-farm enterprises fall into the
micro and small enterprises categories, providing
employment to 20.3 million Bangladeshis workers
in 2013. Most of these enterprises are informal and
focus primarily on trading activities. As such, they
face a substantial productivity challenge. Women’s
economic participation lags expectations given the
country’s current development stage.

Access to formal finance by MSMEs is limited
compared to the average for the South Asia
region, with an estimated financing gap of
Bangladeshi Taka (TK) 237 billion (US$2.8
billion). Small and medium firms perceive access
to finance as the third most important obstacle. In
line with its Vision 2021, the government has sought
to improve MSMEs’ access to finance through
multiple channels. Bangladesh is famous for
pioneering the global micro-credit revolution based
on group guarantees and the total banking sector
lending to MSMEs almost tripled from 2010 to
2016. Nevertheless, there still appears to be a sizable
financing gap for MSMEs, estimated at TK 237
billion (US$2.8 billion) (building on International
Finance Corporation [IFC] calculations).

While recognizing the multi-sectoral challenge
of MSME policy making, improvements in
strategic vision and coordination can yield
significant results to MSME development
and finance. MSME policy invariably involves
several agencies. However, there is currently little
institutional coordination and no strategic vision or
overarching policy framework. Among a multitude
of agencies, the Ministry of Industry has taken
an active role in MSME development, and the
Bangladesh Bank has led MSME finance policy,
including direct interventions such as refinancing
windows. Based on international experience,
Bangladesh would benefit from establishing a
central coordinating, multi-party body to promote
MSME development and finance.

The Bangladesh Bank’s efforts appear to have
increased MSME financing overall from a low
base; however, its impact and effectiveness could
be enhanced by reviewing past and present
financing schemes and institutions. Most of the
success has been with medium enterprises that
do not necessarily face the strongest financing
constraints — and most of the financing is short-
term in nature. The Bangladesh Bank should
refocus its attention on the most constrained among
the MSMEs. In addition, the Bangladesh Bank’s
policy emphasis on banks does not appear to be
fully internalized. Indeed, the banks’ response can
best be characterized as one of passive compliance.
The reasons appear to be based on persistent
underlying financial infrastructure weaknesses and
banks’ risk perceptions. Nevertheless, success cases

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

such as Brac Bank, the Industrial Development
Leasing Company (IDLC), and Prime Bank
deserve some credit. The Bangladesh Bank would
benefit from undertaking an evaluation of past
schemes, guidelines and success stories to inform
future MSME finance policies. Lastly, state-owned
financial institutions, which would traditionally
support MSME development, are faced with
significant challenges — notably with regard to
their mandate and governance, profitability, capital
adequacy, and non-performing loans. It is important
that the government clarifies the long-term goals,
mandates and objectives of the state-owned
financial institutions, and undertakes the necessary
reforms to enhance their role.

There are significant financial infrastructure
weaknesses that need to be addressed to encourage
market-driven MSME financial inclusion. The
2018 World Bank Group’s Doing Business survey
ranks Bangladesh at 159 (of 190 countries) for
the ‘Getting Credit’ indicator, a measure of credit
information sharing and legal rights of borrowers
and lenders. In future, the credit bureau coverage
should include all commercial loans, regardless
of value. It should also mine all available data to
strengthen MSME credit information. Furthermore,
loans are primarily secured through property-based
collateral (that face a challenge regarding property
rights), whereas movable collateral is not yet
accepted for secured lending. Therefore, MSME
financing would benefit from the expansion of the
registry’s mandate to include movable collateral,
the enactment of the Secured Transactions Law
and the creation of a register. Notwithstanding
several legal avenues in place, insolvency and
debt resolution are, in practice, very difficult and
costly. A Small Claims Court could lead to faster
adjudication with lower costs for cases relating to
MSMEs. In this regard, it is important to codify and
operationalize mediation within the Money Loan
Courts and the general courts. To settle disputes
involving small claims or recovering loans to small
enterprises, the Small Cause Courts Act will require
amendments. Institutionalizing Alternative Dispute
Resolution (ADR) mechanisms for commercial
dispute settlement could also help address contract
enforcement processes.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Payment systems, in particular, hold promise
in expanding MSME financial access through
Digital Financial Services (DFS). Technology
is transforming the global economy and MSME
financing. Several enabling factors are critical to
successfully galvanizing this technology, and the
regulatory environment is particularly important.
The Bangladesh Bank has made significant
advances toward the adoption of a digitized
payment system, and has encouraged mobile
financial services. The rapid growth of information
and communication technologies (ICT) services
has led to the increasing use of technology for the
delivery of financial services, but penetration is
limited. Among the key challenges, the legal and
regulatory structure of the mobile-payments system
is restrictive by only allowing for a bank-led model.
The goal should be to transform this into a mobile-
financial system with a broader range of financial
services. Therefore, the Bangladesh Bank needs
to review its strategy and policy relating to DFS,
including making the eco-system more supportive
for the growth of Fintech.

Several innovative and alternative financing
options can be further explored, including risk-
sharing facilities (RSFs), factoring, warehouse
receipt finance, and/or start-up capital policies.
RSFs can partially cover the risks of MSME lending
and help de-risk lending decisions by commercial
banks. Bangladesh can launch a MSME-focused
scheme that learns from its past experiences,
specifically by addressing governance concerns.
In addition, a range of pre-bank financing options
has emerged to support young and dynamic firms.
However, the requisite enabling environment is
still under development. As financial infrastructure
improves and digital technology develops, asset-
based solutions — such as factoring and warehouse
receipt financing — are likely to become more
attractive. Finally, start-up capital is much needed,
but still missing. In this regard, public policy can
help to reduce the risks associated with this segment.

Table 1 provides asummary ofkey recommendations
found in this report.

Table 1: Financial Inclusion Indicators, by Country, South Asia

Institutions

Promote the use of a unified definition at the policy level and improve
data collection and analysis.

Establish a multi-party, central coordinating body to promote MSME
development and financing.

Undertake an evaluation of past schemes and Bangladesh Bank
guidelines to inform future MSME finance policies."

Refocus attention on the most constrained among the MSMEs — the
‘missing middle’.

Clarify the long-term goals of the government and the mandates and
objectives of state-owned financial institutions and undertake the
requisite reforms."

Infrastructure

Improve the credit information infrastructure, expanding the reach of
the credit information bureau."

Enact the Secured Transaction Law and create a register.

Establish a Small Claims Court and institutionalize ADR mechanisms.

Innovation

Promote an effective payment system and financial infrastructure to
support the rollout of DFS and the evolution of Fintech."

Pursue the necessary legal and infrastructure needs for the
introduction or expansion of alternative finance."

Introduce a Risk-Sharing Facility for SMEs.

ote: ADR=Alternative Dispute Resolution; DFS= Digital Financial Services;
SME= small and medium enterprises.

SME= micro-, small and medium enterprises;

"= High priority reform. Short-term is within 9 months, and medium-term is within 18-24 months.
° The ‘missing middle’ refers to small firms and firms at the low-end of the medium-siged enterprise segment that have the

most difficulty in accessing bank finance.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

১৫


FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

I. MSMES: IMPORTANCE
AND FINANCING CONSTRAINTS

Introduction

the backbone of non-farm job creation in Bangladesh. Some 99 percent of all non-farm

De limited data, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are undoubtedly

enterprises fall within the micro and small enterprise categories, providing employment to
20.3 million Bangladeshi workers in 2013. Yet, the use of formal finance by small firms is limited
compared to the South Asia average, with an estimated MSME financing gap of Bangladeshi Taka

Tk 237 billion (US$2.8 billion).'

Improving MSME access to finance is a
fundamental challenge at the heart of a
country’s financial and economic development.
Development theory emphasizes the role of
finance in achieving growth and income equality.
However, one of the most important issues facing
MSMEs is their difficulty in accessing finance.
Given market imperfections, the role of state
policy is critical — from promoting an enabling
environment to more active market interventions.

This report presents a desk review of the
financing gap, constraints and policies related
to the MSME financing in Bangladesh.’ In
doing so, it aims to provide relevant policy
recommendations at a critical time when past
policies can be objectively evaluated, and as
innovative and alternative instruments are
emerging, thereby presenting a unique opportunity
to address these financing challenges.

Section A outlines the structure and role of
MSMEs in the economy of Bangladesh, as well as
their financing constraints. Section B.1 turns to the
regulatory and financing policies pursued by the
authorities, examining coordination challenges
and the effectiveness of efforts toward formulating
key recommendations. Section B.2 focuses on
the challenges and recommendations in the realm
of financial infrastructure, specifically credit
reporting, secured transactions and collateral
registries, insolvency and debt resolution, and
payment systems. Section B.3 outlines innovative
and alternative financing options for MSMEs,

including risk-sharing facilities, asset-based
solutions, and Fintech (financial technology).
Finally, Section C concludes with an overview of
key findings from the report.

MSMEs in Bangladesh

Classification

Bangladesh has lacked a uniform MSME
definition, which has resulted in fundamental
knowledge gaps,’ as well as an inability to
quantify the impact of government and donor
financial assistance. There have been multiple
definitions deployed since 2003 (see annex 1),
including by the Economic Censuses conducted
by the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS),
the Bangladesh Industrial Policy, and surveys by
international organizations, such as the World
Bank Group’s (WBG) Enterprise Surveys. Some
special-purpose sample surveys have also been
used occasionally to diagnose constraints, albeit
in a limited manner.

The MSME definition set by the 2016 Industrial
Policy is now broadly accepted as a unified
definition at the policy level. It is based on the
value of fixed assets (excluding land and buildings)
and/or the number of employees (see table 2). This
unified national definition should be followed by
all government entities. Notably, the Bangladesh
Bank has updated its definition accordingly (see
annex 1).

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Table 2: Unified MSME Definition Adopted under the 2016 Industrial Policy

Cottage Industry Below 1 million Maximum 15
Micro Industry 1 to 7.5 million 16-30
Manufacturing 7.5 to 150 million 31-120
Small Industry
Service 1 to 20 million 16-50
Manufacturing 150 to 500 million 121-300
Medium Industry
Service 20 to 300 million 51-120

Source: National Industrial Policy, Government of Bangladesh, 2016

Structure and Role

Despite the absence of consistent data over
time, there are still some useful conclusions
that can be drawn, primarily from the 2013
Government Economic Census and the Enterprise
Survey (World Bank 2013).

MSMEs are the backbone of non-farm job
creation in Bangladesh (which is broadly in
line with other countries in the region). The 2013
Economic Census counts a staggering 7.8 million
enterprises, of which almost 89 percent belong to
the cottage and microenterprise segment, and 11
percent to the small enterprise segment. Some 99
percent of all non-farm enterprises fall into the
micro and small segments, providing employment
to 20.3 million in 2013. As such, this makes
them the largest source of employment apart of
agriculture (figure 1) — and a key contributor
to poverty reduction. The MSME sector overall
provides 86 percent of total employment outside
of agriculture and the public sector. Notably,
the 2013 Labor Force Survey (LFS) shows
that informal employment in services and
manufacturing accounted for almost 87 percent of
total employment. (Table 11 in annex 2 provides an
overview of the size distribution and employment
data for 2013.)

Most of these enterprises are informal, that is,
they are not registered with the government.
Informality is prevalent in the private economy

and especially among small firms. Some 90 percent
of microenterprises and 95.5 percent of small
enterprises are engaged in providing informal
services for the domestic market. The average size
of these firms — while slightly increasing — is
still low, at 4 employees in urban areas, and even
lower in rural areas. There is limited value chain
integration among this enterprise segment, and
negligible contribution to the export market.

The MSME sector, in particular micro and
small enterprises, is dominated by trading
activities. The distribution of enterprises by broad
economic activities and size (table 12 in annex 2)
reveals that more than 87 and 94 percent of the
micro and small enterprises, respectively, are
engaged in non-manufacturing services, mostly in
trading. However, medium and large enterprises
are heavily involved in industrial activities,
with almost 50 and 53 percent of the medium
and large enterprises, respectively, involved in
manufacturing activities. Reorienting the SME
sector away from trading to higher value-added
economic activity remains an important challenge.

The productivity challenge for micro and small
enterprises is substantial. Evidence from the
manufacturing sector suggests that the micro and
small enterprises tend to have low value-added per
worker and low average wages. Figure 2 shows
that the average labor productivity in micro and
small manufacturing is barely above the low
productivity of the agriculture sector.

|. MSMES: IMPORTANCE AND FINANCING CONSTRAINTS

Figure 1: Distribution of

Employment (%)

50 45
40 35
30
20 20
| L

0

Agriculture Non-Farm Other
MSEs Non-Farm

Source: BBS, LFS 2013 and Economic Census 2013

Figure 2: Average Labor
Productivity 2013 (Tk ‘000)

SS Manufacturing || 77

LS Manufacturing SS 352
Agriculture || 71

0 100 200 300 400

ote: LS=Large Scale. SS=Smiall Scale

Women’s participation in economic activity lags
behind most low-income countries according to
the 2013 Enterprise Survey. The share of women
in ownership and management is less than half
that of low-income countries across all firm sizes.
Although women’s participation in the workforce
is higher (16 percent), especially for larger firms,
it is still significantly lower than the average (34
percent) and that of low-income countries (25
percent).

The Financing Challenge

MSME financing constraints

Small firms’ use of formal finance is limited
compared to larger firms, as well as in
comparison with the average for the South Asia
region. The 2013 Enterprise Survey estimates that
only 27.5 percent of small firms have bank loans/
lines of credit compared to 44 percent of large firms
and 30 percent observed in the region. Small firms
rely more on internal funds to finance investments.
They face higher collateral level requirements
relative to the value of loans received.

Small and medium firms perceive access to
finance as the third most important obstacle in
the business environment. According to the 2013
Enterprise Survey, all firms perceive political
instability and electricity as the top obstacles to
the business environment. Unlike smaller firms,
large firms rank corruption — not access to
finance — as the third most important obstacle.
Notably, there appears to be a segment, known as
the ‘missing middle’, of small firms and firms at
the low-end of the medium-sized enterprises that
have the most difficulty in accessing bank finance.

Financial constraints faced by MSMEs in
Bangladesh are widely recognized in the academic
literature and other studies.* The 2017 International
Finance Corporation (IFC) SME Finance Gap Study
observed that 55 percent of all MSMEs reported
at least being partially financially constrained, of
which 39 percent reported being “fully constrained”.
Daniels (2003) reported the availability of financing
as the top problem faced by MSMEs (based on
a nationwide survey of private enterprises), with
limited credit from formal sources. In another study,
Alam and Ullah (2006) also identified the lack of
medium to long-term credit among the reasons for
slow growth among MSMEs. Likewise, Haider and
Akhter (2014) found that 50 percent of SMEs did
not have any access to bank financing. Focusing
on the manufacturing sector, a survey conducted
by the Bangladesh Integrated Support to Poverty
and Inequality Reduction through Enterprise
Development? found that 69 and 45 percent of small

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


and medium enterprises, respectively, identified
access to finance as a major constraint (Bakht and
Basher 2015). Finally, a2016 study by the Institute for
Inclusive Finance and Development concluded that,
despite the growth of micro-finance, access to credit
remains a major constraint for microenterprises. It
is exacerbated by the high interest rate elasticity of
demand. In this context, a one percent reduction in
interest rate increases demand for microenterprise
credit by 5.6 percent.

Globally, several factors on the demand and
supply sides can explain the large financing
gap for MSME-s. On the demand side, the lack of
financial capabilities and low level of formalization
are key constraints. High financing costs also act
as a deterrent to demand for financing. On the
supply side, the lack of appropriate credit appraisal
policies, credit infrastructure and risk management
tools lead to a high risk-aversion on the part of
financial institutions in lending to MSMEs. The
crowding-out of commercial bank financing to
MSMEs by public sector organizations also leads
to further credit constraints for MSMEs.

Bangladeshi MSMEs are subject to a number
of financing constraints, among them, poor
quality of collateral, inadequate documentation
and ill-defined business plans. Several studies
found that commercial banks regard MSMEs
as high-risk borrowers because of their low
capitalization, insufficient assets and _ high
mortality rates (Bhattacharya and others 2000;
Hossain 1998; and Sia 2003). One of the major
obstacles for micro and small enterprises is the
banks’ reliance on ‘collateral-based lending’,
whereby banks consider fixed asset ownership,
especially land, as the basis for credit extension —
irrespective of the worthiness of the borrower or
project (Bhattacharya and others 2000; Challenges
Consulting 2012; Meagher 1998). Whereas some
commercial banks have innovative products or
services for MSMEs, most banks repackage their
existing products as MSME products (Siddique
and others 2007). The same study also found
that commercial banks disburse loans to small
enterprises only when the government introduces
credit guarantees.

Formal Credit Supply for MSMEs

The financial system is bank dominated, along
with a vibrant microfinance sector. Banks
account for about 70 percent of total financial
system assets and 73 percent of gross domestic
product (GDP). Among the 57 scheduled (licensed)
banks, there are six state-owned commercial
banks, two state-owned specialized developmental
banks, nine foreign commercial banks, and 40
domestic private commercial banks, including
eight Islamic finance banks. In addition, there
are four nonscheduled specialized public banks,
which operate under their own individual laws.
The financial sector also consists of microfinance
institutions (including 784 licensed institutions,
dominated by 10 large microfinance institutions
[MFIs] and Grameen Bank), non-bank financia
institutions (34 in total), the capital market (with
two stock exchanges) and the insurance sector
(with 78 insurance companies). The capital marke
and insurance sector account for about 20 and jus
3 percent of financial system assets, respectively.
Capital markets are equity driven, very shallow
and small, thereby restricting diversification of
funding and access to long-term finance. Marke
capitalization of all listed securities stands a
roughly 20 percent of GDP, with a dominance
of equity securities. There are only 2 corporate
bonds and 8 debentures among a total of 564 listed
securities, and there is no active trading of the 221
government Treasury (T)-bonds listed on the two
stock exchanges.

In line with its Vision 2021, the Government
of Bangladesh has increasingly focused on
MSMEs, including access to finance. Under the
Bangladesh Bank’s leadership, the initial focus
was on micro-credit, with an increasing emphasis
on SMEs since 2011.

Bangladesh is famous for pioneering the
global micro-credit revolution based on group
guarantees through the Nobel-prize winning
Grameen Bank initiative.’ This is further
supported by the Government through several
initiatives, including the establishment of the Palli
Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), a second-

|. MSMES: IMPORTANCE AND FINANCING CONSTRAINTS

tier not-for-profit company providing services
through partners (non-governmental organizations
[NGOs]/ MFIs) and the Micro-Credit Regulatory
Authority (MRA). The role of micro-credit as a
major policy instrument has also been incorporated
into the national development plans as well as the
national budget. MFIs are not permitted to take any
collateral from borrowers. Rather, they use group
guarantees. In this context, microenterprise loans
are usually given to repeater borrowers with credit
histories (for instance, those who have repaid a
microloan). Available evidence suggests that the
spread of microcredit has contributed to poverty
reduction by facilitating higher consumption and
helping the poor to build assets.

Figure 3: Microcredit Members,

As of June 2016, a total of 37.7million members
have benefitted from microcredit programs,
of which over 80 percent are rural female
members. The main features of the microcredit
expansion are illustrated in figures 3-6. Total
loans disbursed through microcredit schemes
have grown to Tk 956 billion (US$11.4 billion) (or
5.6 percent of fiscal year [FY]16 GDP), with an
average size of Tk 29,600 (US$354). Agriculture,
livestock and fisheries account for 50 percent
of the loans, followed by 30 and 4 percent for
trading and transport, respectively. Borrowing for
manufacturing activities is small at just 2 percent.

Figure 4: Distribution of

June 2016 (Million) Membership by Gender (%)
40 37.7 100 90.7
33.1
30 80
60
20
40
10 4.6 20 9.3
0 = 0 |
Total Rural Urban Female Male

Source: Credit and Development Forum, 2016.

Figure 5: Loans Disbursed,

Source: Credit and Development Forum, 2016

Figure 6: Average Loan Sige,

June 2016 (Tk Billion) June 2016 (19009)
Rural PF 824 Rural |. 29
0 500 4,000 4,500 0 10 2 30 40 60

Source: Credit and Development Forum, 2016.

Source: Credit and Development Forum, 2016.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Total MSME lending from the formal banking
sector nearly tripled from 2010 to 2016, with
an 18 percent annual growth rate. Unlike
microcredit, the focus on SME lending is more
recent and has been spearheaded by the Bangladesh
Bank. The market dynamics are illustrated in
figures 7 and 8. MSME credit as a share of total
private sector credit grew from 20 to 25 percent
from mid-2010 to mid-2016. In this regard the
credit share of micro and small enterprises in the
total MSME portfolio grew from 44 percent to 51
percent. In terms of economic activities, although
the Bangladesh Bank’s policy accorded priority to
manufacturing and services, the bulk of credit was
channeled to trading activities (60 percent overall,
with 74 percent for small enterprises).* This is
consistent with the dominance of “trading” in SME
activities as compared to industry, manufacturing,
and value-added services.

Domestic private commercial banks account
for 76 percent of the total outstanding MSME
loans, and MSME loans in turn account for
about 27 percent of their portfolios. The public
commercial banks account for 19 percent of the
total outstanding MSME loans, and non-bank
financial institutions (NBFIs) and foreign private
banks have a nominal presence. Table 3 shows
the total portfolio of outstanding MSME loans
compared to the total amount of loans provided
by all five categories of financial institutions as of
June 2016. However, it should be noted that there
has been a rise recently in the non-performing loan
(NPL) rate for SME loans, particularly among
state-owned banks (estimated at about 40 percent).

Figure 7: Expansion of Bankin
Sector MSME Lending (Tk billion)

2,000

1,526 = 2016 June
1,500
1,000 743
i: 1g
0 =?
Total Medium Small Micro

Source: Bangladesh Bank.

Figure 8: Distribution of Formal
MSME Credit by Economic
Activities, June 2016 (%)

Micro

= Services
Small | = Trading

= Manufacturing
Medium দুল

Total

|

o

20 40 60

80

Source: Bangladesh Bank

Table 3: MSME Loans Outstanding as a Share of Total Loans

Public Commercial Banks 84,039.89 285.6 18.4 18.7
Public Specialized Banks 31,213.60 12.4 29.7 0.8
Foreign Banks 23,853.26 18.6 9.5 1.2
Private Commercial Banks 315,328.57 1,152.2 27.1 75.5
Non-bank Financial Institutions (81719) 31,449.30 56.8 11.4 3.7
Total 485,884.62 1,525.6 23.9 100

Source: Bangladesh Bank

|. MSMES: IMPORTANCE AND FINANCING CONSTRAINTS

Estimated Financing Gap for
Microenterprises

Estimated Credit Demand

The total loan demand for cottage and
microenterprises is estimated at Tk737 billion
(US$8.8 billion). A 2016 comprehensive survey
of 600 microenterprises conducted by the Institute
for Inclusive Finance and Development (InM)
estimated the average demand for credit by
cottage and microenterprises in rural and urban
locations. The survey found that enterprises with
higher employment or those located in urban areas
have, on average, higher loan demand, which is
consistent with conventional wisdom.’ The 2013
Economic Census is then used to estimate the total
demand for credit based on employment size and
spatial distribution. Multiplying the average loan
demand by the number of enterprises provides an
estimate of the total loan demand (see table 4).

Estimated Financing Gap

There appears to exist a sizable financing gap
of Tk 170 billion (US$2 billion equivalent).
The 2016 Credit and Development Forum shows
the amount of credit disbursed by source, as

compiled by with the total credit, amounting to
Tk 566.5 billion. (table 5).!° Comparing supply
with demand shows a sizeable financing gap of
Tk 170 billion (US$2 billion). However, this may
be a substantial underestimation, as it is based on
prevailing interest rates and does not account for
the high interest rate elasticity of loan demand by
microenterprises.'!

Estimated Financing Gap for SMEs

Estimating the demand for credit by SMEs is
difficult due to data constraints. The absence
of firm-level demand data, or time-series/ cross-
sectional data on enterprise profitability, income,
costs, or production prohibits the estimation of
demand functions based on secondary data.

SME financing gap estimate by IFC”

IFC attempted to formulate an estimate of
the SME financing gap in Bangladesh in 2011,
and projected it to be Tk 237 billion (US$2.8
billion). The average financing gap per SME
was estimated at US$2,288 — which when
combined with an estimated total number of SME
enterprises of 804,041 — yields a total financing
gap estimate of about US$1.8 billion (Tk 150.5

Table 4: Average Demand for Loans Among Microenterprises

Urban Rural Urban Rural Total Urban Rural Total
Cottage 1-9 107,710 | 104,283 | 1,730,150 | 5,112,734 | 68,42,884 186.4 533.2 719.6
Micro 10—24 | 228,750 | 133,333 41,112 62,895 1,04,007 94 84 178

Source: InM Microenterprise Survey, 2016, and Economic Census, 2013

Table 5: Loan Supply for Microenterprises, June 2016

Banks 63.1 63.1 11.1

Public Institutions 11.8 11.8 2.1

MFls 955.8 491.6 86.8

Total 1,030.7 566.5 100.0
Source: Credit and Development Forum, 2016

ote: MFIs= Microfinance Institutions

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

billion) (table 6). Not surprisingly, the largest gap
emerges for the very small enterprises. Estimating
the financing gap for 2017 by inflating the Tk
financing gap with the domestic rate of inflation
increases it to Tk 193 billion (US$2.3 billion).
The IFC survey uses enterprise data for 2011,
which had a lower enterprise headcount than the
2013 Economic Census. Thus, adjusting it to the
2013 data increases the financing gap to Tk 237
billion (US$2.8 billion).

In 2017, the IFC MSME financing gap
improved on the 2011 methodology by defining
the counterfactual more concretely,'? as well as by
clearly defining the regulatory and macroeconomic
changes required for the gap to become evident.
Thus, it estimated the MSME financing gap at
$US39 billion.

Table 6: IFC Estimates of Financing Gap, 2011 versus 2017

Very small 727,840 1,989 1.44 102.5 151.7
Small 72,935 3,489 0.25 17.8 26.4
Medium 3,266 42,033 0.14 10.1 15.0
Total SME 804,041 2,288 1.83 130.4 193.1

Source: IFC, 2013

|. MSMES: IMPORTANCE AND FINANCING CONSTRAINTS

FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS
AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

The Regulatory and Financing Policies

in MSME policy making, focused on the strategic vision and coordination among several

Te effectiveness of past and ongoing MSME finance policies appears modest. Improvements

agencies, can yield significant results. A central coordinating, multi-party body would benefit
Bangladesh by promoting MSME development and financing. Bangladesh Bank would also benefit
from undertaking an evaluation of past schemes, guidelines and success stories to inform future
MSME finance policies. Notably, it should refocus attention on the most constrained segments among
MSMEs, and shift the weight of policy beyond the banks. The authorities should also redouble
their efforts in addressing persistent underlying financial infrastructure weaknesses, 01077971712 the
mandates, objectives and the long-term goals of the state-owned financial institutions.

Institutional Coordination

MSMEs are multi-sectoral and involve several
agencies in setting policy, including the Ministry
of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce, the
Ministry of Industry (MOI) and the Bangladesh
Bank. Several special bodies have also been
established to support the MSMEs, including the
SME Foundation (SMEF), the Bangladesh Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC),
the Bangladesh Industrial Technical Assistance
Centre, the Bangladesh Council of Scientific
and Industrial Research, the Business Promotion
Council and the Bangladesh Bank’s MSME
Department (see annex 4).

Currently, there is very little institutional
coordination and no_ strategic vision or
overarching policy framework to support
MSMEs. Among the three concerned line
ministries, the MOI has taken central stage, with its
new industrial policy focused on the development
of SMEs in manufacturing in particular. Most
of these specialized agencies are managed by
the MOI. On the financing side, the government
established the Bank for Small Industries and
Commerce (BASIC) in 1988. In this context, the
Bangladesh Bank has played the most important
role in deploying various regulatory actions and
financing schemes to support the market segment.

The MOL is of the view that it could implement a
more effective financial support program through
the SMEF and the BSCIC, and strongly favors
subsidized interest rates.

Other countries have a more focused and
coordinated approach to MSME financing and
development. The United States has the Small
Business Administration (SBA), a dedicated
agency that provides coordinated comprehensive
support to small business entrepreneurs. In
Malaysia, the National SME Development Council
(NSDC) is the highest policy-making body for the
development of SMEs. It is chaired by the Prime
Minister and is comprised of 13 Ministers, as well
as the Chief Secretary to the Government, the
Director-General of Economic Planning Unit and
the Governor of Bank Negara Malaysia.'*

Regulatory Policies

The Bangladesh Bank has been designing
and implementing initiatives for SME sector
development, including women entrepreneurs.”
It adopted the Small and Medium Enterprise
Credit Policies and Programs in 2011. This
included a formal definition of MSMEs, targets
for MSME lending by commercial banks, a
refinancing scheme, priority MSME activities, and
an emphasis on lending to female entrepreneurs.'°

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


It also eased the procedures and requirements
for lending to small enterprises, including the
relaxation of collateral requirements. A new
department, the “SME and Special Programs
Department”, was also created in the Bangladesh
Bank to accelerate MSME activities and provide
effective monitoring. The main regulatory support
policies are as follows:

Loan provisioning. The Bangladesh Bank offers
attractive loan-provisioning options to support
MSME financing, with only 0.25 percent for
general provisioning. The equivalent rates for
housing, consumer and corporate finance are 2, 5,
and 1 percent, respectively.

Capital allocation. Capital is charged against risk-
weighted assets. A loan of less than Tk 3 million
(US$35.9 thousand) to an MSME with unrated
assets receives a 75 percent risk weight. If the
loan is above Tk 3 million, then the risk weight is
100 percent. For any large unrated group, the risk
weight is 125 percent.'”

Cluster approach to MSME financing. Banks and
NBFIs have received advice from the Bangladesh
Bank regarding the development of customized
financing solutions to suit 50 MSME clusters that
it identified based on locations conducive to the
development of an industry.

Credit rating. The Bangladesh Bank has
recognized a specialized credit rating agency for
MSMEs called the Bangladesh Rating Agency
Limited. It has established the guidelines for the
credit rating of MSMEs, known as the “Credit
Rating Methodology for Small and Medium
Enterprises”’.'*

Directive to increase MSME loans. The
Bangladesh Bank has also issued directives that
20 percent of all bank/ financial institution loans
should be to MSMEs. This will be increased to
30 percent by 2021. The Bangladesh Bank’s
SME and Special Programs Department has been
charged with the responsibility of formulating
financial policy, facilitating credits and monitoring
the development of MSMEs. The formulated
guidelines are as follows:

The Bangladesh Bank sets an indicative target
for MSME loan disbursement for a year and
coordinates closely with the banks and financial
institutions to achieve it.

Following an ‘Area Approach Method’, banks
and financial institutions try to attain their
indicative targets separately by dividing them by
branch, region and sector.

Each bank/ financial institution can follow
a separate business strategy with the least
formalities in executing documentation for easy
and speedy loan sanction and disbursement.

For small entrepreneurs, the credit limit ranges
from Tk 50,000 to Tk 5 million (US$600 to
US$60 thousand). At least 40 percent of the
total disbursement target should be reserved for
small entrepreneurs. Priority is given to potential
women entrepreneurs.

Each bank/ financial institution is to establish a
separate ‘Women Entrepreneurs’ Dedicated Desk’
with the requisite, suitable manpower. It should
provide staff with training on MSME financing
and also appoint a woman officer as chief of the
dedicated desk.'? Banks and financial institutions
may approve loans of up to Tk 2.5 million (US$30
thousand) to women entrepreneurs against
personal guarantees. In that case, group security/
social security may be considered. Overall,
15 percent of the total MSME credit would be
allocated to women entrepreneurs.

The Department of Banking Inspection-3 of
the Bangladesh Bank conducts regular on-site
inspections to monitor compliance with the
above guidelines. The success of MSME loan
disbursements is considered to be a yardstick for
further approval of new branches of the concerned
bank. Licenses for new branches will be issued
for financing priority sectors, such as MSMEs
and agriculture. (From 2010, these were provided
under the name of the ‘MSME/Agriculture
Branch’ instead of the ‘MSME Service Centre’.)

Each bank/ financial institution can set the interest
rate on MSME loan sector/ subsector. However,
for women entrepreneurs, it would be the bank

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

rate +5 percent, not exceeding 10 percent.” As
noted, the Bangladesh Bank also instructed banks
and NBFIs to reserve 15 percent of total MSME
funds exclusively for women entrepreneurs.”!

Financing Policies and Schemes

The Bangladesh Bank opened an equity fund
and refinancing windows to channel low-
cost credits received from various donor and
international organizations. These funds, in
addition to its own resources, are used as the
banking channel for disbursements.”7 Some 46
banks and NBFIs have signed a participation
agreement with the Bangladesh Bank under the
following schemes:

Refinance schemes with assistance from various
donors and the Bangladesh Bank’s own fund.

¢ The World Bank’s “Enterprise Growth and
Bank Modernization Project” (EGBMP): This
project aimed to stimulate investments through
small enterprises to offset employment losses
from closed SOEs (for example, Adamjee Jute
Mills). The Small Enterprise Fund included Tk
6 billion (US$72 million equivalent) from the
Bangladesh Bank, US$10 million from the World
Bank through the EGBMP, and Tk 0.6 billion
(US$7.2 million) from the Government, for a total
of Tk 1.2 billion (US$14 million). The scheme
was extended to banks and NBFIs at the bank rate
against their financing to small entrepreneurs,
and demonstrated high market demand. Recovery
against refinanced loans is used as a revolving
fund for financing MSMEs. In this context, Tk 3.1
billion (US$37 million) has been provided to 32
banks and NBFIs to support 3,160 enterprises on
a revolving basis. Disbursement was completed
in mid-2011 and, as of mid-2014, Tk 3.0 billion
(US$34.8 million) had been recovered.

Asian Development Bank (ADB) Fund-1 “Small
and Medium Enterprise Sector Development
Project” (SMESDP): Subsequently, the ADB
placed an additional US$30.0 million in the Small
Enterprise Fund (SEF) in 2005. An amount of Tk
3.4 billion (US$40.7 million) was provided to
banks and NBFIs for a total of 3,264 enterprises,

completing its disbursement in September 2009.
As of mid-2014, Tk 3.3 billion (US$39.5 million)
had been recovered.

ADB Fund-2 “The Small and Medium-Sized
Enterprise Development Project” (SMEDP):
The fund aimed to enhance medium- to long-
term financing to eligible MSMEs. The total fund
amounted to US$95.0 million, of which ADB
provided US$76.0 million and the Government
of Bangladesh (through the Bangladesh Bank)
US$19.0 million, which was transferred from the
balance of the earlier ADB-1 (SMESDP) Fund.
Disbursements were completed in end-2013,
with Tk 7.5 billion (US$89.7 million) to banks
and financial institutions for a total of 13,645
enterprises. As of mid-2014, Tk 2.6 billion
(US$31.1 million) had been recovered.

Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) Two-Step Loan (TSL) Fund, “Financial
Sector Project for the Development of Small
and Medium-Sized Enterprises” (FSPDSME):
The objective is to create a medium- to long-
term finance market for MSMEs, especially for
productive investments. The fund size amounts to
Japanese Yen (JPY) 5 billion (US$45.5 million
equivalent), including technical assistance, as
well as the TSL of JPY 4.79 billion (US$43.5
billion). Some 25 banks and 21 NBFIs signed
participating agreements. As of mid-2014, a total
of Tk 2.0 billion (US$23.9 million) had been
refinanced for 271 enterprises. The TSL was
later extended to provide up to Tk 100 million
(US$1.2 million) for retrofitting, rebuilding and
relocation of factory buildings of the ready-made
garment (RMG) and knitwear factories as part of
the FSPDSME.

Agro-based product processing industries. The
Bangladesh Bank launched a scheme in 2001 from
its own funds for agro-based product-processing
industries outside the Divisional Head Quarters
and Narayanganj town. It was increased from an
original amount of Tk 1.0 billion (US$12 million)
in 2001 to Tk 2.0 billion (US$23.9 million) in
2012 — and then again to Tk 4.0 billion (US$47.8
million) in 2013. Refinancing is provided to banks

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


and NBFIs at the bank rate. Since mid-2014, a
total of Tk 5.0 billion (US$59.8 million) has been
disbursed to 1,897 enterprises on a revolving basis.

New entrepreneurs in the cottage, micro and
small segment. The Bangladesh Bank has
created a fund of Tk 1.0 billion (US$12 million)
from its own sources to provide start-up capital
to new cottage, micro and small enterprises.
The entrepreneurs are selected and trained by
recognized public and private training providers
and will receive financing at the bank rate +5

of Islamic banks in SME financing. Specifically,
it will do so by refinancing the loans provided by
Islamic banks to agro-based industries and small
entrepreneurs (including women-led enterprises).

At the same time, state-owned financial
institutions — which would traditionally support
MSME development — are faced with significant
challenges. State-owned banks include four state-
owned commercial banks, and two state-owned
specialized banks. They account for a quarter of the
total banking system assets and are significantly

weaker than private banks, thereby posing a
financial and fiscal stability risk. Measurement
issues aside, they underperform on profitability,
capital adequacy, and non-performing loans.”
They suffer, among other things, from poor
governance practices, weak internal controls and

percent. Refinancing from this fund is expected to
start soon.

Islamic Finance (Sharia-based) refinance scheme
for Islamic banks. The Bangladesh Bank created
this fund with the objective of enhancing the role

Box 1: An Approach Framework to State Intervention and State-owned
Banks

Governments justify state ownership in the financial sector based on various grounds (table 7). A frequently used
justification in the academic literature is the effort to address a set of market failures attributable to asymmetric
information problems and externalities (World Bank, 2012; Cull, Martinez Peria, and Verrier, 2017). State intervention
has also been justified based on its contribution to social goals, specifically by financing projects with negative net
present value — but with positive social returns (Levy-Yeyati, Micco, and Panizza, 2004). The justification is that the
state has the ability to overcome coordination failures (De la Torre, Gozzi and Schmukler, 2017), or that it can be a way
to promote better competition in the financial sector.

The recent literature has also identified the important countercyclical and safe-haven role that state-owned financial
institutions (SOF Is) can play during financial crises or economic recessions (World Bank, 2012; Rudolph, 2009; Micco
and Panizza, 2006; Bertay, Demirgiig-Kunt, and Huizinga, 2015; Choi et al., 2016; Coleman and Feler, 2015; Brei and
Schclarek, 2013). Although not frequently reflected in the academic literature, governments have also promoted SOFIs
as world-class champions—a matter of national pride and global outreach—or simply as a source of returns through
their shareholding position. Nonetheless, evidence on the countercyclical role of banks is mixed (Luna-Martinez and
Vicente, 2012; Cull and Peria, 2013) and, if credit allocation is poor, SOFIs’ countercyclical role becomes questionable
(Bertay, Demirgiig-Kunt, and Huizinga, 2015; Coleman and Feler, 2015).

Several studies also convey the criticisms of state ownership in the financial sector. Agency problems (Shleifer and
Vishny, 1998; lannotta, Nocera, and Sironi, 2007; Ding, 2005; Acharya et al., 2010, lannotta et al. 2013) may exacerbate
the efficient delivery of financial products and services, damaging banking system performance (Barth, Caprio, and
Levine, 2006). These arguments emphasize the need to resolve the underlying market failure directly. For example,
credit or collateral information weaknesses should be addressed by strengthening the country’s financial infrastructure,
and long-term finance should be promoted by reforms related to capital markets and institutional investors.

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

Table 7: State Intervention Rationales

(i) Market failures, leading to a lack of competition and
underserved segments. Financing financially profitable
projects that would not receive financing due to market
failures (for example, asymmetric information).

SMEs, agriculture, research and development
(R&D) and capital-intensive sectors. International
trade. Long-term finance (including infrastructure).
Broader commercial banking.

(ii) Promoting social/ developmental goals.

Rural and isolated areas.

Financing financially unprofitable projects that are
socially valuable. This encompasses socio-economic,
environmental and/or other goals.

Labor-intensive sectors. Wide geographic branch
presence. Broader commercial banking.

(iii) Countercyclical/ safe haven issues. Financing
financially profitable projects that do not receive
financing when private bank risk appetite declines in
reaction to recessions. Reduce employment volatility.
Provide a safe haven for depositor flight and contagion
circuit breaker during a crisis.

(iv) Promoting state champions. Promoting the | Broader commercial banking.
creation of globally relevant institutions as a matter of

national pride and global outreach.

(v) Enhancing returns. Provide returns to the state | Broader commercial banking.

as shareholder.

SOFIs encompass a broad range of financial intermediaries and can be classified from the purely commercial to the
purely developmental. Although trying to categorize state ownership of financial institutions into strict types is difficult,
in broad terms one can differentiate among three key types of SOF Is (see Table 8). At the one extreme, pure state
commercial banks are practically full-fledged, profit-maximizing, taking deposits from the general public and extending
loans directly to the final customers, without a policy mandate. At the other end of the spectrum, pure state development
financial institutions operate under a narrow policy mandate. They may not collect deposits and rely on direct lending
instruments and the provision of technical assistance. The underlying rationale is important in defining performance
expectations. For example, the social goal focus of a state development-oriented institution could emphasize capital
preservation rather than profit maximization. In any case, government transfers in support of social goals and their
transparency are fundamental to sustainability.

Table 8: SOFI Institutional Typologies

(i) State commercial banks. They do not have a policy mandate. | (i) Return; (ii) Countercyclical/ safe
They are profit maximizers with operations practically indistinguishable | haven; (iii) Competition; (iv) State
from those of private commercial banks. They collect deposits from the | champions.

public and use them to lend directly to firms and individuals. In many

cases, they are universal banks, either directly or through affiliates.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

(ii) State hybrid banks. They have a policy mandate. They perform | (i) Return; (ii) Countercyclical/ safe
commercial banking activities. They collect deposits from the public | haven; (iii) Competition; (iv) State
and use them to lend directly to firms and individuals. They act as a | champions; (v) Market failures; (vi)
government agent in administering state subsidies and other programs. Social goals.

(iii) State development financial institutions. They have a
policy mandate. They usually do not take deposits and are funded
by international financial institutions (IFls), bonds or government
transfers. They lend directly or on-lend to firms in specific sectors
(SMEs, exports, agriculture, and so on), as well as deploy partial
credit guarantee schemes or other financial instruments.

(i) Market failures; (ii) Social goals;
(iii) Countercyclical.

Table 9 summarizes a range of financial instruments. The selection of instruments by 50715 should depend on
the intervention rationale, whereas the structure and degree of institutional development of the country’s financial
system is an important determinant. In general, direct lending by state development-oriented institutions should be
undertaken according to market segments (for example, client type, location, maturity, underlying security, and so
on) not covered by the private sector. Importantly, direct lending requires highly specialized risk management, strong
credit underwriting skills, and operational efficiency. However, on-lending by state development-oriented institutions
through other financial intermediaries limits the scope for political interference and competition distortion. At the same
time, it enables the channeling of a higher volume of resources at lower costs by leveraging the infrastructure of
other institutions. Risk-sharing facilities are another indirect and market-friendly means of state intervention, with the
additional benefit of further leveraging public resources. In this regard, capacity-building and training programs can
increase the sustainability of state financing.

Table 9: SOFI Instrument Typologies

(i) Direct lending (also known as first-tier, retail).
Direct provision of finance to the ultimate beneficiary.
Finance can be a regular loan, leasing, or factoring.

Targeted approach, used when the ultimate beneficiary
or location is too expensive for private financial
intermediaries to serve.

(ii) On-lending (also known as second-tier, wholesale,
apex). On-lending to financial intermediaries for their direct
provision of finance to the ultimate beneficiary. Finance can
be a loan, leasing, or factoring.

Lower cost and risk management burden. Limited scope
for political interference and market distortion. Can
promote competition among private sector participating
institutions and lead to a higher demonstration effect.

(iii) Partial credit guarantee schemes (also known
as risk-sharing facilities). Offering of partial credit
guarantees that partially offset loan losses by private
financial intermediaries upon the ultimate beneficiary's
default (for example, infrastructure projects, MSMEs,
gender targeting, and so on).

Leverage public resources. Alleviate enterprise
collateral constraints, reduce project risk, and financial
intermediary risk aversion.

(iv) Grants. Direct or indirect (through third parties)
provision of grants.

Achieve socially desired objectives, ensure equitable
income distribution.

(v) Other financial products, such as venture capital
and equity financing.

Typically deployed to develop segments of the capital markets.
Targeting seed start-up and early-stage enterprises.

(vi) Non-financial products. Offering advisory services,
capacity building, and training programs to financial
intermediaries or ultimate beneficiaries, or market
creation services, such as reverse factoring platforms.

Strengthen financial intermediaries or ultimate beneficiaries,
typically complemented by financing.

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS


risk management practices, as well as significant
inefficiencies. Importantly, there is little clarity
in defining ownership purpose and rationale,
as well as in setting criteria for developmental
impact, and commercial and operational success.
Consequently, any potential for fulfilling a
developmental role, such as MSME support,
is significantly undermined. Box 1 describes a
framework for state intervention, its rationales
and typologies of state-owned banks and their
instruments of intervention.

Effectiveness

financed. Donor financing includes multilateral
and other bilateral donor partners such as the ADB
and JICA. The Bangladesh Bank then channels
low-cost funds to SMEs through other partner
financial institutions (PFIs), with often prescribed
maximum interest rates to be charged by these PFIs
to specific targets (such as women entrepreneurs).
It is understood that around 25 percent of the
consolidated loan book of the commercial banks is
dedicated to SME loans. This is notable given that
in many countries this ratio is in the single digits or
in the tens. Two evaluation studies of SME finance
programs were conducted in 2016 and 2018. They

noted that SME sales, profits and employment
increased over 2012-2014.% The increased SME
lending over the same period is mainly attributed
to commercial banks, although lending from NBFIs
also increased at a higher rate.

The Bangladesh Bank’s efforts appear to have
increased MSME financing. The Bangladesh
Bank’s existing refinancing schemes for SME
lending have been self-financed as well as donor

Box 12: MSME Segmentation and Prospects from a Bank’s Perspective

According to the banks, there are 3 distinct segments in the micro and small enterprise lending market. They are as follows:

1. Firms to which banks lend amounts of Tk300 thousand to Tk 1.5 million (US$3.6 thousand to US$17.9
thousand equivalents). These are referred to as micro/ cottage firms. This segment is dominated by the MFls.
Although bank finance could increase maturity, lower rates and formality, there are drawbacks as the operational and
supervision costs are high and there are several regulatory restrictions.

2. Firms to which banks lend amounts of Tk1.5 to Tk30 million (US$17.9 thousand to US$358.8 thousand) are
referred to as small firms. This is considered a large segment with substantial opportunities. Firms are relatively
dominant in their line of business. They include small retailers and suppliers of raw materials. Nevertheless, this
segment is also known as ‘the missing middle’ — that is, firms that have difficulty in accessing bank finance because
of collateral and other constraints (for example, the lack of proper accounts). They are also too big to qualify for loans
from MFls. Additional constraints to bank finance include being in business for an insufficient amount of time to build a
credit history, or operating in rural areas.

3. Firms to which banks lend amounts of Tk30 to Tk200 million (US$358.8 thousand to US$2.4 million) are
referred to as emerging small firms. This segment includes the wholesalers, large retail outlets, the large flour
and rice mills, oil-ginning mills, and so on. Small firms are usually the suppliers to these emerging small firms that
are more involved in the manufacturing sector. Some examples include large distributors of Grameenphone (leading
telecommunications operator), BKash (mobile financial services company), and so on. This segment also has access
problems, especially in rural and peri-urban areas away from Dhaka.

The last two segments, unless under a mortgage, present a significant risk for banks since lending without collateral
requires a solid customer assessment. Collateral-free lending is done up to amounts of Tk1.5 million (US$17.9 thousand)
(and in exceptional cases of creditworthy customers, up to Tk1.5 million [US$17.9 thousand]). Nevertheless, based on
the experience of BRAC, IDLC, and more recently Prime Bank, small and emerging small firms often prioritize the loan
repayment. They do so because they place a premium on their bank relationship, as well as to ensure that their Credit
Information Bureau (CIB) report remains clean.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

Most of the success has been with medium
enterprises (that do not, necessarily, face the
strongest financing constraints) and most of
the financing that has been provided is short-
term in nature. In some cases, banks may have
also circumvented the MSME lending targets by
accommodating multiple accounts for medium
enterprises. Despite high MSME credit demand
and high bank liquidity, few financial institutions
have embedded MSMEs in their mainstream
business (see box 2). Most banks are also focused
on corporate lending based on fixed asset collateral
(that is, land and buildings). Making the shift from
corporate to SME lending, which is frequently based
on movable collateral, represents a considerable
cultural change for traditional commercial banks.
In addition, most of the financing is short term
and does not meet the medium to longer term
financing needs of non-trading enterprises in the
manufacturing and industrial sectors.

The Bangladesh Bank’s policy emphasis on
commercial banks for MSME finance does not
appear to be fully internalized. Most banks/
NBFIs have complied with Bangladesh Bank’s
guidelines by opening a MSME Department at
their Dhaka headquarters, followed by some
internal and external public relations efforts.
Targets set by the Bangladesh Bank on SME
lending appear “indicative”, with no penalties or
incentives attached. As such, they would benefit
from being more grounded in an analysis of
what is achievable. Overall, the banks’ response
to the Bangladesh Bank’s efforts may best be
characterized as one of passive compliance.

According to industry professionals, the key
reasons for the underperformance of banks
in the MSME market segment include: the
fear of the unknown (negative perception(s) of
MSME lending, reinforced by an increase in
MSME defaults);* a bank’s desire to be associated
with well-known names in the industry in terms
of their loan portfolios (that is, brand names
among corporates and institutions); tedious credit
appraisal and operation systems that suit a few big
ticket customers only; collateral-based lending that
appears safer than weighing cash flow and business

sustainability;”° the high level of bureaucracy in
banks that prevents innovation and risk taking;
the lack of market know-how regarding financial
products in the MSME segment; familiarity
with paper-based internal activities rather than
technology-driven, simplified procedures. In
addition, interest rate caps associated with the
low-cost refinancing lines reduce the banks’
incentives to participate, also affecting the credit
lines focused on women entrepreneurs.”

Nevertheless, there are cases, such as of Brac
Bank, IDCL, and Prime Bank that have been
more positive in their activities vis-a-vis MSME
expansion. These are illustrated in box 3.

Policy Recommendations

Promote the use of a unified definition at the
policy level and improve data collection and
analysis. The MSME definition set by the 2016
Industrial Policy is already broadly accepted
and should be widely promoted. Improving data
collection and analysis is urgently needed. This
could entail revamping the SME database that
was created by the Bangladesh Bank leveraging
existing technology solutions.

Establish a multi-party central coordinating
body to promote MSME development and
financing. A pragmatic option would be to assign
clear responsibilities among the two primary
agencies for MSMEs. The SME Foundation under
the Ministry of Industry would focus on research,
overall development policy, and monitoring and
evaluation. It will also be important to promote
the formalization of MSMEs, adjust the policy
to account for informal MSMEs, and simplify
business procedures for MSMEs.”* All finance-
related policy and implementation would be under
the SME Department of the Bangladesh Bank. A
coordinating committee/ body would involve other
relevant ministries with oversight by the Ministry
of Finance or the Prime Minister’s Office.

Refocus attention on the most constrained among
the MSMEs, that is, the ‘missing middle’. Except
for the low-end of medium enterprises, most of
the firms in the medium-size group face a similar

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

Box 3: Lessons of Positive Adaptive Experiences

Brac Bank and Industrial Development and Leasing Corporation (IDLC): The two financial institutions are acknowledged
leaders in MSME financing. Brac Bank's MSME asset portfolio reached 103 billion (US$873.1 million) and IDLC’s Tk 30
billion (US$358.8 million) by September 2017 (with a non-performing loan [NPL] ratio below 4 percent). They have included
MSMEs as a strategic business goal and adjusted their risk functions to the market segment. Each has adopted different
structures and processes to suit their competitive advantages in achieving lower costs.

IDLC is the largest NBFI in the country. As it cannot offer financial products that larger customers need (such as guarantees,
letters of credit, foreign exchange loans, and so forth) due to regulatory constraints, it has invested in the SME and the small
enterprise segment. IDLC relies on software. The approval authority lies with the principal branch, whereas the acquisition
and other functions are with the local branches (that also have a representative from credit risk management).

Expanding geographical coverage is the main challenge for NBFls serving SMEs, as almost all NBFls are urban centric
whereas the financing gap is higher in rural and semi-urban areas. However, Brac Bank works with hard copies and 60 area
credit managers across the country. Its success is attributed to a “go to [the] customer approach’, including agent banking
for both secured and unsecured lending to SMEs. Its system is completely decentralized with an equal number of credit
document checkers, called hubs or regional operating centers. These centers hold the initial screening process, that is, before
a signal is sent for disbursement advice to the principal branch.

Both Brac and Brac Bank have developed a very solid reputation in the micro finance space. However, Brac Bank is now
contemplating helping micro enterprises to develop into the small (and even into the medium) enterprise space. Although
Brac Bank has struggled with this new orientation, they now appear to be experiencing excellent growth in their SME portfolios
— with surprisingly low levels of non-performing assets. They are now committed to ensuring that 50 percent of their loan
book is focused on SMEs in Bangladesh (presently they are at 41 percent). One issue of concer that remains, however, is
the major focus on trading companies rather than manufacturing, industry, and value-added services.

Prime Bank: The bank made a strategic shift in 2016 to increase its MSME portfolio share. It adopted policies and guidelines,
alongwith a well-crafted MSME vision, organizational structure, and suitable human resources. The bank established a special
unit (the MSME Banking Division), and launched a MSME enabling End2End credit delivery process, standard operating
procedures and customized product program guides. It hired MSME banking professionals, relationship managers, credit
analysts and collection executives. The MSME relationship managers were deployed in selected business hubs, identified as
‘core MSME markets’. The bank also established ‘Credit Processing Hubs’ in 7-8 key locations across the country. Within a
year, the bank’s MSME portfolio grew by Tk 5.2 billion (US$62.2 million).

The bank's vision is to position itself as the ‘Best MSME Bank in Bangladesh’ by 2020. In this context, further investments and
changes in the areas of staffing, technology, policy, processes, products, and distribution are in progress. Prime Bank has had
a significant demonstration effect, and other leading banks (such as City Bank, UCB and Dutch Bangla) have also started to
invest heavily in the MSME segment.

Source: PRI (2017)

environment to that of the large enterprises. This
distorts policy efforts, such as the Bangladesh
Bank’s financial schemes, thereby reducing their
impact. Additionally, safeguards must be put in place
to prevent the use of multiple accounts by the same
firm and/or use of accounting techniques by large
firms to access financing facilities targeting MSMEs.
One option is to focus policy on micro and small
enterprises, with some adjustment for the low-end of
the medium cluster. However, this should be focused

at the program level, as a re-definition of MSMEs
would, once again, disrupt the available information
base that should guide decision making.

Undertake an evaluation of past schemes and
the Bangladesh Bank’s guidelines to inform
future MSME finance policies. There is a need
to assess these schemes and guidelines, as well as
to draw lessons to better formulate future schemes
and strategies. The authorities should consider

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


expanding the use of market-oriented solutions
to leverage private sector capital (such as partial
credit guarantee schemes, see Section F).

Clarify the long-term goals of the government
and the mandates and objectives of the state-
owned financial institutions. The authorities
should consider undertaking an in-depth study
regarding the role of state intervention in the
financial sector. Irrespectively, policy makers
should also improve corporate governance
arrangements, strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Finance’s Bank and _ Financial
Institutions Division (BFID) to act as owner,
focus efforts on development (including MSMEs)
and undertake the necessary restructuring. As
state-owned financial institutions strengthen,
the Bangladesh Bank should migrate financing
schemes to these institutions, thus avoiding
any perceived conflicts of interest as regulator,
supervisor and on-lender to financial institutions.

The Financial Infrastructure Gaps

Addressing financial infrastructure weaknesses
is critical. The quality of financial infrastructure
determines the efficiency of intermediation, as
well as the ability of lenders to evaluate risk and
of borrowers to obtain credit, insurance and other

financial products at competitive terms. The credit

bureau coverage should include all commercial
loans, regardless of value, and mine all available

data. The registrys mandate should include
movable collateral. In addition, the Secured
Transactions Law needs to be enacted. To overcome
difficult and costly insolvency and debt resolution
challenges, the authorities should amend the
Small Cause Courts Act, codify and operationalize
mediation within the Money Loan Courts and the
general courts, and institutionalize Alternative
Dispute Resolution mechanisms. Payment systems
hold promise in expanding MSME financial access
through the DFS. To achieve deeper and broader
penetration of financial services, the Bangladesh
Bank needs to review its strategy and policy
relating to DFS and making the eco-system more
supportive of the growth of Fintech.

Credit Reporting
Credit reporting addresses asymmetric
information issues in determining the

borrowers’ repayment capacity, as well as
their willingness to repay loans. Information
asymmetries may lead to adverse selection, credit
rationing, and moral hazard problems. Annex
5 describes the General Principles for Credit
Reporting Systems, a core set of general principles
to guide credit reporting systems developed by
the World Bank, with support from the Bank for
International Settlements.

The World Bank Group’s 2018 Doing Business

Table 10: Efficiency of the Bangladesh Regulatory Regime, 2018 —

Getting Credit

Strength of legal rights

index (0-12) 5 4 8 6 2 2 8 5.3 12
Depth of credit information

index (0-8) 0 8 7 6 7 6 7 4 8

Credit registry coverage

(percent of adults) 0.9 95.3 0 55.3 9.9 0 51 3.8 100
প110005459 0 14 | 35 | 183 67 1:86 1197 [144 100
(percent of adults)

Source: Doing Business 2078, |nternational Finance Corporation

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

survey ranks Bangladesh at number 159 (of
190 countries) for ‘Getting Credit’ (a measure
of credit information sharing and legal rights of
borrowers and lenders). This puts Bangladesh
behind regional comparators, such as India (at 29),
Sri Lanka (at 122) and Bhutan (at 77). The poor
performance stems from low scores in three key
indicators (table 10) related to the depth of credit
information (with a score of 0 as compared to 8 for
China),”° credit registry coverage (with 0.9 percent
of adults versus 95.3 percent for China), and credit
bureau coverage (with 0 percent of adults versus
21.4 percent for China).

Credit bureau coverage should include all
commercial loans, regardless of value, to benefit
MSMEs. The Bangladesh Bank established
a Credit Information Bureau (CIB) in 1992,
which, according to the 2015 policy guidelines,
is responsible for the collection, processing
and maintenance of an updated database of
credit information supplied by participants and
institutions that extend credit. Nevertheless, while
CIB reports have been particularly helpful for the
relatively larger and corporate enterprises, the
majority of MSMEs are still not included in the
CIB list. The thresholds for the loans included in
a credit bureau’s database are high, and retail and
small business loans are also excluded.*° Notably,

there is no private sector credit information
provider, as in many other countries. The
experience of India is especially useful in this
regard. It is a good functional example of a private
sector-led CIB (see box 4).

The Bangladesh Bank should also work with
other institutions to help mine all available data
to strengthen credit information relevant to
MSMEs. MFIs, utility, trade credit data, retailers
and telecommunications companies are significant
sources of data. Such data can be used to assess
behavioral patterns for existing MSMEs, as well
as new entrants.

Allowing private firms and individuals to access
credit information would also be a positive
step. Changes in the Banking Act to allow the
Bangladesh Bank to share credit information
with other/third parties would serve two valuable
functions. First, retailers would be able to judge
the creditworthiness of customers based on past
lending history, rather than traditional (and less
accurate) metrics, such as family connections
or previous transactions with that firm. This is
particularly important for retailers of high-value
goods, such as automobiles. Second, individuals
could access their own information. This would
allow borrowers to check and confirm the accuracy

Box 4: India’s Experience with Private Sector-led CIBs

The credit information companies in India are led by the private sector. The Credit Information Bureau (India) Limited,
commonly known as CIBIL, was incorporated in 2000 and launched its operations in 2004. It maintains records submitted by
registered member banks and other financial institutions on a periodic (usually monthly) basis. Based on this data, the CIBIL
issues credit reports and a credit score.

Shareholders in CIBIL include TransUnion International (a global credit bureau provider), the ICICI Bank, the State Bank of
India, the Indian Overseas Bank, HSBC, the Union Bank of India, the Bank of India, the Bank of Baroda, and Allahabad Bank.

CIBIL has two focus areas, namely a Consumer Bureau that deals with consumer credit records and a Commercial Bureau
that deals with the records of companies and institutions.

Following the enactment of the Credit Information Companies (Regulation) Act in 2005, three other Credit Information
Companies (0105) were licensed in 2010, namely, Equifax, Experian and CRIF Highmark. There are currently efforts
underway to further reform the credit information industry, specifically by increasing the coverage of the credit information
business. This would be accomplished by allowing alternate data sources to be collected, establishing a credit registry for
supervisory and financial stability purposes, and putting in place best practices for 0105 and credit institutions.

Source: PRI (2017)

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

of the data and, if necessary, to have it corrected.

Secured Transactions and Collateral
Registries

Modern secured transactions laws and collateral
registries can increase the availability of credit
and reduce its cost. Collateral provides the basis
for free-flowing credit markets, reducing the
potential losses lenders face from non-payment.
Whereas land and buildings are widely accepted
as collateral for loans, the use of movable assets
(such as inventory, accounts receivables, livestock,
crops, equipment, machinery, and shares) as
collateral for loans tends to be restricted by the lack
of a legal and institutional framework for secured
lending and collateral registries. Reforming the
framework for movable collateral lending would
allow businesses (particularly SMEs) to leverage
their assets into capital for investment and growth
(see box 5 for some international examples).

Loans in Bangladesh are primarily secured
through property-based collateral, but face
a challenge regarding property rights —
particularly in the lengthy and sometimes non-
transparent process linked to establishing a land
title. Discrepancies and uncertainties in the legal
framework governing security rights, as well as
shortcomings in the institutional framework of the

registration system of security interests, require
significant improvements.

The expansion of the registry’s mandate to
include movable collateral could increase
financing to MSMEs.*' Most small enterprises do
not have immovable assets to present as collateral.”
Challenges related to the development of the
movable collateral registry include: (i) the lack of an
adequate legal and regulatory framework for secured
lending against movable collateral;** (ii) limited
availability of movable finance products across the
financial sector, as well as in conducive regulation
to support movables-based lending; (iii) a relatively
limited understanding of secured lending reform
and its importance; and (iv) a credit bureau that still
needs significant upgradation and capacity building.
The draft Secured Transaction Law (STR) was
presented and accepted in principle in March 2017
by a Monitoring Committee with representatives of
BFID and the Bangladesh Bank. There is a consensus
and commitment to obtain Cabinet approval of the
STR Law in 2018, and for the Ministry of Finance to
then present the law before Parliament. Furthermore,
Bangladesh does not have a secured transaction
register, although various development partners
have assisted in the drafting of a law to facilitate the
formation of such a register.

Box 5: International Examples of Successful Secured Transaction Reforms

Colombia: The country enacted a new Secured Lending Law in 2013 and a new centralized collateral registry in 2014. As a
result, more loans were registered in six months than in the previous 30 years. More than 58,000 loans were registered with
a value of more than US$10 billion.

China: The country enacted a legal reform (2007) and a new centralized online registry for accounts receivables and leasing
(2008). This resulted in more than US$6 trillion in financing with receivables (mostly to SMEs), as well as the development of
the factoring and leasing industries.

Vietnam: The country enacted a legal reform and new centralized online registry (2012). As a result, 400,000 loans were
granted to more than 215,000 SMEs and 15,000 microenterprises. The total volume of financing through the registry is
US$13.7 billion.

Mexico: The country enacted a legal reform and a new centralized online registry (2011). Over 150,000 loans were registered

for a total secured amount estimated at over US$200 billion. Loans secured with movables multiplied by a factor of four, with
45 percent in the agricultural sector and 95 percent in the SME sector. Businesses have also saved US$4 billion in fees.

Source: De la Campa, A. (2015) “Secured Lending and Collateral Registries: A global perspective’, World Bank Group
Presentation, Dhaka

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

Insolvency and Debt Resolution

Ineffective debt recovery and weak mechanisms
for business exits create a higher cost of capital
and heightened perception of risk among
investors and financial institutions alike. Well-
functioning legal, regulatory, and institutional
frameworks are crucial for commercial banks
and companies. Specifically, they are needed to
resolve non-performing loans, facilitate business
exits as well as reorganizations, settle commercial
disputes, and collect debts. Legal and regulatory
frameworks that inhibit corporate restructuring
prevent many viable businesses in financial
distress from continuing to function as ongoing
concerns when they are in a state of insolvency.

Notwithstanding several legal mechanisms
currently in place, loan recovery, insolvency
resolution and contract enforcements are,
in practice, very difficult and involve high
transaction costs in terms of both time and
resources. The legal mechanisms include: (i)
the Artha Rin Adalat (Money Loan Court) Act
of 2003;** (ii) the Arbitration Act of 2001 for
out-of-court resolution of commercial disputes
through arbitration; (iii) the privately provided
and institutionalized ADR mechanism provided
by the independent Bangladesh International
Arbitration Center (BIAC); and (iv) the procedure
for contract enforcement under the Civil Procedure
Code. Nevertheless, the World Bank Group’s
Doing Business 2018 report ranks Bangladesh
at number 189 (out of 190 countries survey) for
enforcing contracts, and number 152 for resolving
insolvency. It also estimates that loan recovery
rates are low, at 28.3 cents on the dollar.**

A Small Claims Court could lead to faster
adjudication with lower costs for cases
relating to MSMEs; it is important to codify
and operationalize mediation within both
the Money Loan and general courts. Court-
connected mediation is envisaged as an option
under both of these procedures, but it has not been
operationalized because of lack of implementing
10195 and capacity within the judiciary. Out-of-
court mediation is virtually nonexistent because
there are no legal provisions for the enforcement

of out-of-court mediation settlements that can be
handled by an institution such as the BIAC, for
example. Only the court enforcement of arbitration
awards is currently regulated. However, arbitration
is often equally lengthy and expensive as in regular
court proceedings. Therefore, it does not cater to
the specific needs of MSMEs.

To settle disputes involving small claims
or recover of loans to small enterprises,
Bangladesh has the Small Cause Courts Act,
1887 (Act No. IX of 1887), but there is a need
for amendments. This could be the court system
through which smaller denomination defaulting
debts could be adjudicated, if the process is simple
and straightforward. As evident from Section 23
of the Act, there are limitations to its ability, if
the title of immovable property cannot be proved.
Thus, there may be a need for amending the Small
Causes Courts Act 1887, particularly to settle
commercial disputes and default credit recovery
with simpler and least-cost processes. Bangladesh
could also consider the procedures and scope
of what is known as a Small Claims Court (as
found in Australia, Kenya, Singapore, the United
Kingdom and the United States, for example),
with jurisdiction encompassing private disputes
that do not involve large amounts of money.

Institutionalizing Alternative Dispute
Resolution mechanisms for commercial
dispute settlement could also help address the
concerns voiced by the private sector regarding
inadequate, inefficient and lengthy contract
enforcement processes. An ADR _ institution
would encourage new investments and help
to extricate existing investors from business-
hindering litigation. A debt resolution intervention
could also have a significant impact on improving
loan recovery rates. There is an ongoing IFC
project on debt resolution in Bangladesh which
assisted with the creation of the first Bangladesh
ADR Center, the BIAC.*® The next phase of the
project with the BIAC, the Ministry of Law and
other stakeholders aims to incentivize the use
of arbitration for bank commercial contracts,
including the use of mediation for debt recovery
actions (before applying to a Money Loan Court).

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Payment Systems

Payment systems form a vital part of
the financial system enabling funds to be
transferred between and among people and
institutions. Secure, affordable, and accessible
payment systems and services promote economic
development, support financial stability, and
help expand financial inclusion.*” A transaction
account held with banks or other authorized and/
or regulated payment service providers allows
individuals and businesses — in particular,
MSMEs — to perform most, if not all, of their
payment needs (such as making and receiving
payments), and to safely store some value. It
can also serve as a gateway to other financial
services. Globally, electronic payment solutions
have contributed to expanding MSME access to
credit because of the creation of a digital footprint
for MSME transactions. This history can be used
to assess MSME creditworthiness. In addition,
e-commerce has the potential to help the MSME
sector grow.

The Bangladesh Bank has made significant
advances toward the development of a digitized
payments system. Importance was given to
implementing newer payment platforms, that is,
the National Payment Switch (NPS), an e-Payment
Gateway and Real Time Gross Settlement
(RTGS), while also upgrading the required legal
and regulatory framework befitting the electronic
payment platforms. It currently has in place the
Bangladesh Automated Clearing House (BACH),
the first ever electronic clearing house. The system
has two components, namely the Automated
Cheque Processing System (ACPS) and the
Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).

The Bangladesh Bank has also encouraged
the development of Mobile Financial Services
(MEFS), with the objective of expanding access
to banking services and expediting the delivery
of remittances; however, there are challenges.
The current challenge will be to transform this
mobile-payments system into a mobile-financial
system with a broader range of financial services
being offered electronically. Despite 32.2 million

users of mobile banking accounts as of June 2016,
cash remains the predominant form of payment
used in financial transactions. A 2013 survey on
“Payment Mechanisms in Bangladesh” indicated
that there are issues with the EFT and online
banking, including technical glitches, such as
network and server failures and the high volume
of fees, especially for those firms that use EFT
frequently for letters of credit. In addition, the
value of transactions through MFS in Bangladesh
was only 5.6 percent of GDP in 2015, far lower
compared to Kenya at 55 percent. BKash, a
subsidiary of BRAC Bank, has been a pioneer in
this area. However, Bangladesh has yet to reach its
full potential in implementing an effective digital
financial service (DFS). The legal and regulatory
structure is restrictive by only allowing a bank-
led model, which has helped BKash innovate and
grow toward the formation of a virtual monopoly.

Small enterprises tend to rely heavily on cash,
with cash accounting for 72 percent of all
payment transactions in a given year. On the
other hand, checks only comprise 24 percent of
all payment transactions, EFT 3 percent, and only
1 percent is made through cards, courier, mobile
banking and telephone transfers.** Business
payments are typically categorized as either:
(i) Business to Business (B2B), such as for the
purchase of goods and services, sales receipts,
office rent, transportation, utilities costs, security,
and stationery; (ii) Business to Government (B2G),
such as for fees, value-added tax (VAT) and taxes;
and (iii) Business to Others (320), including for
salaries, services, consultants, and casual labor.
In Bangladesh, checks are predominantly used
for all categories of business payments, as well
as for 95 percent of B2G payments. A large share
of B2B payments (32.3 percent) is made through
EFT, which typically pay for purchases of goods
through international Letters of Credit using
the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication (SWIFT).

Policy Recommendations

Improve the credit information infrastructure,
expanding the reach of the CIB. Credit bureau

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

coverage should include all commercial loans,
regardless of value, to benefit MSMEs. MFIs
and telecommunications companies could be
significant sources of data to assess behavioral
patterns (for both existing MSMEs and new
entrants). The Bangladesh Bank should consider
allowing credible privately-managed 0191
reporting systems, while ensuring effective
regulation and oversight by the Bangladesh Bank
or other relevant authorities.

Enact a law and establish a secured transaction
register. Pursue efforts to establish a secured
transaction register, with a legal framework for
secured lending addressing the fundamental
features and elements for the creation, recognition,
and enforcement of security rights for all types
of assets. This would encompass movable and
immovable assets and tangible and intangible
assets— including inventories, receivables,
proceeds, and future property. On a global basis,
it would also include both possessory and non-
possessory rights.

Establish a Small Claims Court and
institutionalize ADR mechanisms. Review
and amend the Small Cause Courts Act 1887,
adjudicating for small claims disputes between
banks/ financial institutions and micro and small
enterprise borrowers. Establish a Small Claims
Court with a maximum monetary limit to the
amount of judgments it can award. Institutionalize
ADR mechanisms for commercial dispute
settlement, which will also help with inadequate,
inefficient and lengthy contract enforcement
processes.

Promote an effective payment system and
financial infrastructure to support the rollout
of DFS. The Bangladesh Bank needs to review
its strategy and policy relating to DFS, including
making the eco-system more supportive of Fintech
growth. A critical element will be to promote access
to finance through Fintech, as well as having in
place an effective payment system. The creation
of a payments and financial infrastructure that will
continuously improve the enabling environment
to facilitate lending and uptake of DFS would be

key. The Bangladesh Bank has also been ushering
in regulatory changes, and has issued directives
to the banks for starting e-Commerce activities.
These can be revisited to lower transaction costs.

Exploring Innovative and
Alternative Financing Options

Several innovative and alternative financing
options that are currently unexploited hold
promise. Appropriately designed and governed
risk-sharing facilities can help to de-risk MSME
lending decisions. As the necessary enabling
environment and financial infrastructure improves
and digital technology develops, factoring and
warehouse receipt finance are likely to become
viable solutions. Public policy can also help to
reduce the risks associated with start-up capital.

Risk-sharing Facilities

A majority of countries around the world have
established risk-sharing facilities (RSFs) to
partially cover the risks of MSME lending — and
help de-risk lending decisions by commercial
banks. A RSF provides third-party credit risk
mitigation to lenders through the absorption of a
portion of the lender’s losses on the loans made
to SMEs in case of default in return for a fee. A
well-functioning RSF can contribute to MSME
finance in a market-friendly way by sharing risks
with financial intermediaries and encouraging
the development of appropriate market segment
lending and risk management technologies. It can
also help to alleviate the collateral constraints of
19115.

A RSF can also be complex in design and
implementation, as well as subject to moral
hazard if operating in an _ environment
characterized by poor governance.” There
are multiple design options with significant
implementation impacts. These include the
management structure, the operating rules, and
guarantee characteristics. Just as with other
instruments of state intervention, weak governance
can result in resource misallocation, along with
market distortions. Critical design choices,

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Box 6: Credit Guarantee Schemes in India and Thailand

India: The Government of India instituted “the Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGS)” to
provide collateral-free credit to the micro and small enterprise sector. Both existing and new enterprises are eligible. The
Ministry of MSMEs, the Indian Govemment and the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), established a
Trust to implement the CGS: Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE). It was formally
launched in August 2000. The funding is provided by the Goverment and SIDBI with a financing ratio of 4:1, respectively. The
total funding was amounted to Indian Rupees (Rs.) 25 billion (US$358.3 million) until May 2016, with 24,31,490 approved
proposals from micro and small enterprises for an aggregate credit amount of Rs.11.35 billion (US$162.7 million).

Eligible credits are term loans and/or working capital facilities up to Rs.10 million (US$143.3 thousand) per borrowing unit,
extended without collateral and/ or third-party guarantee. The maximum guarantee is 85 percent and varies by size and
development considerations. For example, the guarantee is 75 percent for credits up to Rs.5 million (US$71.7 thousand);
85 percent for credits to microenterprises up to Rs.500 thousand (US$7,166) provided; 80 percent for micro and small
enterprises owned/operated by women; 80 percent for all loans to the Northeast Region, including Sikkim; and 50 percent if
the credit amount is between Rs.5 and 10 million (US$71.7 thousand to 143.3 thousands). The tenure is a block of 5 years,
if working capital facility on standalone basis is covered under the Credit Guarantee Scheme.

The annual guarantee fee is an all-in of 1.0 percent per year. This is reduced for preferred creditors: 0.75 percent for a
credit facility of up to Rs.500 thousand and 0.85 percent for amounts between Rs.500 thousand and 10 million for women,
microenterprises and units in the Northeast Region, including Sikkim.

To support startups, India is also proposing a scheme that will provide up to 80 percent risk cover for loans of up to Rs.50
million (US$716.6 thousand) without collateral.

Thailand: The Small Industry Credit Guarantee Fund (SICGF) was established in 1985 and was renamed the Small Business.
Credit Guarantee (SBCG) in 2005. It is a state-owned specialized financial institution under the supervision of the Ministry
of Finance, and the only credit guarantee institution in Thailand. It has a registered capital of Baht 4.4 billion (US$136 million
equivalent).

The Shareholding Structure is as follows: the Ministry of Finance holds 93.18 percent; the Private Banks 2.50 percent; the
State-owned Banks 1.53 percent; the Government Savings Banks 1.44 percent; The Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand 1.08 percent; and the Small and Medium Enterprise Development Bank of Thailand 0.27 percent. The Guarantee
Fee is 1.75 percent per year of the guaranteed amount, paid in advance, and collected by lenders remitting it to the SBCG.
The maximum limit of the outstanding guarantee is five times the capital (that is, Baht 22 billion [US$680.1 milion]).

Source: PRI (2017)

such as the responsibility of loan assessment
and recovery, the coverage ratio, pricing, claim
processing, capital relief of the guarantee, and so
on, can influence the developmental impact and
the sustainability of the scheme. These choices
can potentially have fiscal and financial stability
repercussions as well.

Bangladesh had tried to launch guarantee
schemes through various state-owned banks
(SOBs), but these have faced significant
governance problems. The SOBs did not perform
the appropriate due diligence, and the schemes

SECTION TITLE

suffered from severe moral hazard and significant
losses. The Bangladesh Export Credit Guarantee
Scheme (ECGS) presents a more positive
experience.*° (See also box 6). Since 1978, this
government program has been implemented at
the initiative of the Export Promotion Bureau
and the ministries of commerce, industry and
finance. The scheme encourages exporters to
initiate exports of new products and/or to enter
new markets by covering the risk of insolvency
of buyers — in addition to political risks inherent
in foreign trade.*! The scheme also provides a

guarantee for bank loans taken by the exporters
for meeting their financial needs during the
production time, as well as between the exporting
of goods and the receipt of payment from foreign
buyers. The Sadharan Bima Corporation, a state-
owned general insurance enterprise administered
the scheme. However, it is currently inoperative.
The government is now planning to create another
fund similar to the ECGS, as mentioned in the
“Export Policy 2015-18”. It is expected to provide
rapid financial compensation for incurred losses
by exporters.

With support from IFC in 2017, the Bangladesh
Bank agreed to design a targeted RSF to
address the collateral issues faced by women
entrepreneurs in the SME segment. The
scheme design will leverage the WBG’s extensive
experience with public-sector RSFs and ensure
the scheme mitigates moral hazard concerns.
It will also ensure that it has sufficiently strong
governance. The Bangladesh Bank will pilot the
RSF with seed funding from the United Nations
Capital Development Fund.

At the private sector level, BRAC Bank and the
Development Credit Authority of the United
States Agency for International Development
(USAID) have been involved in an on-going
credit guarantee scheme project since 2014.
This is targeted toward 20 underserved districts in
the southern part of Bangladesh. For an annual fee
of US$13,000, the agency covers 50 percent of the
BRAC Bank’s agri-business loans. The guarantee
scheme has encouraged BRAC Bank to expand in
areas of perceived high risk.

Lessons should be drawn from past and
ongoing experiences with risk-sharing facilities
to design a scheme that responds to market
needs. The current MSME financing landscape
(and ‘the missing middle’, in particular) lacks
an appropriate incentive mechanism for financial
institutions to sustainably scale up their lending
to this market segment. If appropriately designed,
from specific mandate to independent governance,
such a scheme could be a catalyst to expanded
MSME financing.

Alternative financial instruments

A range of alternative or innovative pre-bank
financing options have emerged to support
young and dynamic firms reach the bankable
stage.” In factoring, an enterprise receives funds
from a specialized institution (factor) by selling
its accounts receivable at a discount. In purchase
order finance, an enterprise obtains financing
for inputs to meet the order against the strength
of its purchase order against agreed fees and
service charges. In warehouse receipt finance,
the loan is secured by commodities deposited at a
certified warehouse, and the commodities cannot
be released until the loan is repaid. In /easing, an
enterprise secures the right to use machineries
and equipment for a specified period by paying
a rental fee. In securitization, a bank packages
MSME loans into a portfolio and sells that
portfolio to capital market investors (reducing its
risk and increasing liquidity). In crowdfunding, an
enterprise raises funding from a large number of
individuals in the same spirit as social marketing
(typically using the Internet to mobilize donations,
equity or debt). A mezzanine finance operation
combines two or more financing instruments and
sells it to an investor as a single entity. A venture
capital operation involves equity participation
by wealthy individuals in enterprises regarded as
having high potential. Since the investor assumes
a high level of risk, the internal rate of return on
investment projects tends to be very high (on the
order of 20-25 percent). Business angels are a
variant of venture capital. They typically involve
a high net-worth individual who provides equity
finance to start-up companies (with no family
connection) in return for company shares.

For all such operations, the most important success

factor is the enabling environment, which is still

under development in Bangladesh. An efficient
regulatory and legal system that preserves the
sanctity of a contract by ensuring its enforceability
is critical. Proper documentation and digitized
record keeping is also necessary. Without these
pre-requisites in place, the risks of fraud are very
high — especially for crowdfunding and angel-
funding types of initiatives.** There are numerous

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


examples in Bangladesh of fraudulent practices
with high losses for small investor funds. As a
result, such efforts are approached with suspicion.

As the financial infrastructure improves
and digital technology develops, asset-based
solutions, such as factoring and warehouse
receipt finance, are likely to become more
attractive. The Bangladesh Bank recently
launched an online consultation regarding draft
guidelines on factoring, which are being discussed
with legal experts and major stakeholders.
Presently, the guidelines are under finalization for
approval. A feasibility study and other technica
studies are also planned for warehouse receip
financing under the World Bank’s Financial Sector
Support Project, which is being implemented by
the Bangladesh Bank. Leasing is in active use, bu
it is focused mostly on the upper-end of medium
and large enterprises.

Start-up capital is much needed, but still
absent. Bangladesh has several large firms in the

organized non-bank startup financing options for
small enterprises are very limited. There have
been some efforts by private enterprises to develop
equity financing options, but these initiatives have
had limited success (ADB 2014).44 In addition to
the absence of an enabling financial infrastructure
and the lack of regulations for the venture capital
(VC) industry, a major problem is the reluctance of
enterprise owners to seek equity financing for the
fear of losing control over ownership. Additional
challenges include the inability to conduct
proper due diligence, the limited availability of
quantitative and qualitative information on SMEs,
and different perceptions of company valuations
between SMEs and VC firms.

Supporting the start-up space could contribute
significantly to supporting new, innovative more
dynamic, and growth-oriented firms. It could
also help the SME sector diversify from “trading”
to more value-added activity (such as industry,
manufacturing, and value-added services). New
start-up enterprise finance support could help

RMG sector at the top end, but few firms in the
middle range. Microenterprises have benefited
from the microfinance revolution. However,

in areas such as ICT, mobile-apps/applications,
tourism, pharmaceuticals, tourism, and so on.

Box 7: The United States Small Business Investment Company (SBIC)

SBIC is a private company that is licensed by the Small Business Administration (SBA) to provide investment funding
to small businesses in the form of debt and equity. SBA supports qualified SBICs by providing funds for approved lines
of business. The SBA provides US$2 for each US$1 placed by a SBIC. A typical SBIC loan ranges from US$250,000
to US$10 million and entails interest of 9-16 percent. Equity financing involves joint ownership between the SBIC firm
and the business receiving equity financing. Equity participation could range from US$100,000 to US$5 million. A
combination of debt and equity financing involves a joint partnership and loan rates of 10-14 percent. The volume of
funding is in the range of US$250,000 -US$ 10 million.

Part of SBA’s funding relates to the Early Stage Innovation and Social Impact Programs. The former is designed to
support companies in the earliest stages (before the company has a significant cash flow or asset base) and financing
ranges from US$1-4 million. The latter is designed to provide funding for businesses that have at least 35 percent of
employees residing in low- or moderate-income areas, or that operate in the clean-energy or education sector.

From 2011 to 2015, SBIC-licensed funds invested US$21 billion in more than 6,400 companies, 20 percent of them
located in low- to moderate-income areas. A majority of SBIC-licensed capital went into states other than California,
New York or Massachusetts. Evidence also shows that the SBIC program funded more women and minority-led
companies than a standard private equity fund. Apple, Intel, FedEx, Costco, Staples, and even Build-a-Bear, are just
a few of the companies that received early stage investment from a SBIC license holder.

Source: PRI (2017)

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

Public policy can help reduce the 71510
associated with this market segment. Examples
include the Small Business Investment Company
(SBIC) supported by the SBA in the United States
(Box 7) and the Youzma Fund in Israel. Learning
from these experiences, Australia, Canada and
countries in Western Europe have also established
similar support institutions. There is already a
good experience in Bangladesh pioneered by the
Industrial Development Leasing Company (IDLC),
the largest NBFI. The IDLC uses Bangladesh Bank
refinancing money to finance start-ups and micro
and small enterprises at low interest rates.*° The
IDLC could consider establishing similar windows
as the SBIC, attracting donor and government
funding to provide market incentives for financing
NBFIs that are willing to provide start-up financing.

Fintech Solutions

Technology is transforming the global economy
and MSME financing. Fintech companies (a
short form for the use of technology in financing
solutions, and increasingly used interchangeably
with DFS) hold a promise of providing a new
set of products tailored to the needs of smaller
businesses. The main use cases of Fintech
are provided in annex 7. Fintech companies
have emerged with innovative solutions that
can substantially improve efficiencies at each
step of the lending process, including loan
origination, underwriting, disbursements and
collections, along with service and monitoring.
Marketplace (peer-to-peer) lending provides
credit to MSMEs through online platforms that
match lenders (savers, investors) with borrowers.
It has significant advantages in terms of speed,
convenience, and terms (for example, no collateral
needs). Technology platforms for invoice and
value chain finance can streamline processes,
allowing, for example, small business owners to
directly connect their accounting software to the
invoice finance platform, apply for a loan, and
receive payment almost instantly. Access to credit
can also be expanded using the digital footprint
created by MSME transactions using e-commerce
or e-payments to assess the borrower’s
creditworthiness.

Several enabling factors are critical to
the success of Fintech, and the regulatory
environment is particularly important.’ The
main regulatory issues center on financial stability,
prudential regulation, conduct and fairness, and
competition and development. Ensuring a level
playing field between market players, banks and
Fintech remains a key challenge. From a risk
perspective, the traditional risks pertaining to
the underlying product remain, whereas some
risks have increased, such as money laundering/
financing of terrorism, data privacy and consumer
protection.

The fact that many of these developments
are rapidly evolving, coupled with the lack of
adequate analysis, raises the question of when
and how to regulate. Several central banks
and other regulators are establishing regulatory
sandboxes to encourage experimentation and
allow regulators to become more familiar with
the innovations. With this knowledge, they can
better assess the risks and calibrate the regulatory
frameworks. For example, the People’s Bank of
China and Bank Negara Malaysia are establishing
regulatory sandboxes to encourage and guide
innovations. Some countries are going further and
establishing innovation hubs and accelerators.
In this context, the Central Bank of Mexico has
established an innovation hub, and there are also
efforts being made to develop a new legal and
regulatory framework for Fintech companies.
Both China and the United Kingdom (UK) have
sought ways to preserve financial stability, while
providing an enabling environment for Fintech
companies to work in a competitive environment.
In the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority has
established an Innovation Hub. In Singapore, the
Monetary Authority of Singapore has earmarked
S$ 225 million (US$165.2 million equivalent)
for research to support the growth of Fintech
solutions. Also, the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission has created open office
hours to support Fintech. Finally, in several
African countries (for example, Kenya presented
in box 8, or Senegal), the regulators have been
very supportive, allowing a domestic Fintech
industry to blossom.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

The International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank Group launched the Bali Fintech
Agenda in October 2018. It is a set of 12 policy
elements aimed at helping countries to harness
the benefits and opportunities of rapid advances
in financial technology that are transforming
the provision of banking services, while at the
same time managing the inherent risks. Agenda
topics covered relate broadly to enabling Fintech,
ensuring financial sector resilience, addressing
risks, and promoting international cooperation
(see annex 7).

In Bangladesh, the rapid growth of ICT services
has led to the growing use of technology for the
delivery of financial services. Banks and NBFIs
have adopted ICT for a range of services, including
e-banking. Several NBFIs, such as IDCL, are
using technology to simplify loan applications and
approvals using online transactions. The spread of
mobile phone ownership (and the growing use of
smart phones) has supported the rapid growth of
mobile financial services (MFS). The Bangladesh
Bank defined the regulatory policies for MFS in
2011, and the response has been positive in terms

of electronic money transfer operations (Ahmed
2017).5 The Bangladesh Bank has also begun
making regulatory changes and issuing directives
to banks for starting e-Commerce activities.

Successful MFS providers include Bkash of
BRAC Bank and Rocket of Dutch Bangla Bank
Limited, and a number of other new players are
emerging.** These include CloudWell, founded in
2012, which offers several payment solutions under
its brand name. PayWell offers prepaid debit cards,
payment gateways, and point-of-sale systems. It
has a network of more than 5,000 retail shops, and
its main customers include big enterprises across
the financial services, telecommunications, and
e-commerce industries. SmarTKompare, launched
in 2015, lets users compare financial products from
numerous financial institutions (including loans,
insurance, credit cards, and deposits). Projekt.
co, launched in 2015, is a platform that provides
innovators, artists, and change-makers with the
opportunity to raise funds from their friends, family
and the community. SureCash provides mobile
banking and mobile payment network solutions,
connecting people, banks, and businesses. It works

Box 8: Kenya’s Success with Fintech companies

Kenya has emerged as a Fintech hub in emerging markets, with M-Pesa’s success spurring several innovative digital
financial products. M-Pesa, led by the telecoms giant Safaricom, revolutionized financial inclusion by offering a broad
range of financial services (including deposits, loans, money transfers and e-payments for services). Over 85 percent
of the adult population uses such services regularly to pay for products and amenities, such as household bills and
school fees — with only 38 percent using a traditional bank account. Spurred by the success of M-Pesa, many Fintech
companies have sprung up, including companies that offer MSMEs small loans through mobile phones within a matter
in seconds. Others facilitate digital payments and smallholder farmers to purchase insurance for their crops.

Several factors explain this success. First, in recent years, there has been an expansion of innovation hubs that are
helping new Fintech companies to both start and grow. Incubators such as iHub, the Nairobi Garage, m-lab and
Nailab offer low-cost, collaborative opportunities for start-up companies to share and refine their ideas. Second, the
financial regulator has played a strong supportive role in providing an enabling environment for the growth of Fintech
companies. This has been done without any restrictions on entry or requirements that these initiatives be led by a
bank. Indeed, the traditional financial institutions have taken a back seat in this endeavor. Third, Kenya has undertaken
reforms to simplify and deregulate the business environment for the private sector. For example, Doing Business year?
ranks Kenya at 80 (of 190 countries), improving rapidly from a rank of 129 in 2014. Finally, the availability of fixed
telecommunications infrastructure and the rapid adoption of smart-phone use played a strong enabling role for the
users of Fintech services.

Source: Blythin and Cooten 2017.

Il. MSME POLICY, FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GAPS AND ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS

with 6 local banks, 350 payment partners and over
41,000 retail agents. Finally, UCash of the United
Commercial Bank Limited is a mobile financial
service. An increasing number of banks are
providing online Internet banking. E-commerce
is also growing with chadal.com, dugdugi.com,
bikroy. Ride-sharing cabs, such as BD cabs, have
also emerged.

A number of challenges remain. First, there has
been only limited penetration and usage of digital
payments. Despite the opportunities brought by
some government initiatives (such as “Digital
Bangladesh”, “A2I’, digitization of government
payments, upgrades of BACH and national switch
[implemented under a World Bank project]), the use
of mobile banking and the Internet to pay bills or
for purchases remains lows. So too, the ownership
of debit and credit cards remain low compared to
other countries in the region, such as India or Sri
Lanka. Second, there has been limited adoption of
technology by businesses as measured by the low
percentages of firms with their own website (at
about 25 percent), as well as of firms using email to
interact with clients/suppliers. Third, there is a lack
of capacity, scale and coordination in the digital
entrepreneurship ecosystem.

Policy Recommendations

Introduce a RSF for SMEs. This should
incorporate lessons learned from _— global
experience, as well as any insights from the pilot
for targeted RSFs for women-led SMEs. The
RSF should have an explicit goal of financial
sustainability, operational transparency, and full
disclosure. Whereas the Bangladesh Bank may
take the lead in the short run, in the medium-
term, the authorities should consider creating
an independent professional company with an
appropriate governance structure. This could be
funded by the government, participating banks/
NBFIs, international development organizations,
or other entities.

Pursue the necessary legal and infrastructure
needs for the introduction or expansion of
alternative finance. The Bangladesh Bank should
continue its efforts to promote factoring and
warehouse receipt financing. The authorities could
also support start-up capital financing and its
ecosystem. Furthermore, the IDLC experience can
be mainstreamed by establishing a similar window
as the SBIC, pooling donor and Governmen
funding.

Support the evolution of Fintech. The Bangladesh
Bank could issue necessary Circulars to suppor
Fintech and bank/ financial institution partnerships,
which is the most pragmatic means in the shor
term. In the medium term, the Bangladesh Bank
should consider moving beyond a bank-centric
Fintech model. Instead, it should consider forming
a dedicated Fintech Support Department tha
could collaborate with the National ID issuing
authority, the Security Exchange Commission,
Prime Minister’s Office, the Bangladesh
Telecommunication Regulatory Commission
(BTRC), and the ICT-related regulator. The goals
would be to educate, observe and guide Fintech
activities, and encourage experimentation within
a regulatory sandbox, for instance, by better
assessing the risks and support for Fintech-
friendly regulations. The policy and regulatory
framework for data aggregators from multiple
sources (MFIs, telecommunications records,
utility payments, and so on) should be developed
to allow for full leverage of alternative data for
credit decisions, As such, it would help to promote
the development of the Fintech sector beyond its
current focus on person-to-person transfers and
retail payments. In addition, encouraging open
API-based integration with existing financial
institutions will allow Fintech to offer targeted
financial products. The suggested Fintech Support
Department can take the lead with other relevant
Bangladesh Bank counterparts, as well other
public-sector counterparts, to operationalize the
required infrastructure.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Ill. CONCLUSIONS

undoubtedly critical for job creation and economic growth, and access to finance has rightly

T=: is an opportune time to reexamine MSME finance policy in Bangladesh. MSMEs are

been the focus of policy makers in Bangladesh. However, MSME financing gaps remain
very high, even compared with other South Asian economies. Thus, the authorities have focused on
this challenge. However, just as with all policies, a frequent reevaluation is warranted. This is an
appropriate time, as past approaches can be objectively evaluated, and innovative and alternative
instruments are emerging that present a unique opportunity to address remaining challenges.

This report presents a desk review of the
financing gap, constraints and policies related
to MSME financing, offering recommendations
for policy makers to plan for the future.
Recommendations are as follows:

¢ Improvements in the strategic vision and
policy implementation require institutional
coordination. Bangladesh would benefit from
establishing a central coordinating multi-party
body to promote MSME development and
financing.

The Bangladesh Bank would benefit from
undertaking an evaluation of past schemes,
guidelines and success stories to inform
future MSME finance policies. The Bangladesh
Bank should refocus its attention on the most
constrained among MSMEs and broaden its
policy emphasis beyond the banks.

It is important that the government clarifies
the long-term goals, mandates and objectives
of the state-owned financial institutions, and
undertakes the necessary reforms.

¢ Addressing the significant financial infra--
structure weaknesses is fundamental. These
include outstanding policy actions regarding
credit reporting, secured transactions and
collateral registries, and insolvency and debt
resolution.

Payment systems, in particular, hold the
promise of expanding MSME financial access
through Digital Financial Services (DFS). The
Bangladesh Bank has made significant advances
toward the development of a digitized payment
system. It needs to now review its strategy and
policy in transforming the mobile-financial
system to one offering a broader range of services.

The time is ripe to explore and plan for
several innovative and alternative financing
options. A MSME-focused RSF can learn from
past experiences by addressing governance and
design concerns. As financial infrastructure
improves and digital technology develops, asset-
based solutions, such as factoring and warehouse
receipt finance, can be promoted. Finally, public
policy can help reduce the risks associated with
start-up capital.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS


FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

ANNEXES

Annex 1. Definition and Classification of MSMEs
e following summarizes the various definitions and classifications of MSMEs adopted in
Bangladesh:

2003 — Economic Census: The Bangladesh
Bureau of Statistics (BBS) used full-time
employment as the classification basis for the
2003 Economic Census (table 1).

2010 — Industrial Policy: The Ministry of Industry
used the value of fixed assets (excluding land and

buildings) and the number of employees for the
2010 Industrial Policy (table ).

2011 — Bangladesh Bank: As a part of its effort to
promote the financing of MSMEs, the Bangladesh
Bank followed a similar definition to that of the
2010 Industrial Policy. However, it changed the
parameters (table ).

Table 11: Definition of MSME in the 2003 Economic Census

Micro 0-9

Small 10-49
Medium 50-99

Large 100 and above

Source: Economic Census 2003, BBS.

Table 12: Definition of MSMEs in the Bangladesh 2010 Industrial Policy

A. Medium Enterprise

Service Concern Tk 10 to 150 million 50 to 100 employees
Manufacturing Concern Tk 100 to 300 million 100 to 250 employees
B. Small Enterprise

Service Concern Tk 500,000 to 10 million 10 to 25 employees
Manufacturing Concern Tk 5 to 100 million 25 to 99 employees

C. Micro Enterprise

Service Concern

Tk 500,000 or less

10 or less employees

Manufacturing Concern

Tk 500,000 to Tk 5 million

10 to 24 or less employees

Source: Doing Business 2078, International Finance Corporation.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Table 13: Bangladesh Bank Definition of Small Enterprises

A. Medium Enterprise*

Service 5,000,000 — 100,000,000 50
Business 5,000,000 — 100,000,000 50
Industrial 15,000,000 — 200,000,000 150
B. Small Enterprise

Service 50,000 — 5,000,000 25
Business 50,000 - 5,000,0000 25
Industrial 50,000 — 15,000,000 50

Source: Bangladesh Bank, 2011
ote: *Bangladesh Bank also defines me

ium enterprises as those that are not pu

lic limited companies

2013 — Economic Census 2013: BBS adopted
the definition of the 2010 Industrial Policy,
which introduced consistency for policy-
making purposes. However, it made census data
uncompilable across time.

2013 — WBG Enterprise Survey: The survey uses
three levels of stratification: industry, size, and
region. Size was defined based on employment:
small (5 to 19 employees), medium (20 to 99
employees), and large (more than 99 employees).

2016 — Updated definition by the Bangladesh
Bank (see table 14).

Annex 2. MSME Structure and
Roles (2013 Bangladesh Economic
Census)

MSME Employment

Since the classification changed from 2003, a
strict intertemporal comparison is not possible.

Table 14: Updated Definition of MSMEs by the Bangladesh Bank, 2016

ANNEXES

Manufacturing 500,000 _ 5,000,000 10-24
Micro Enterprise Business Less than 500,000 Less than 10
Service Less than 500,000 Less than 5
Manufacturing 5,000,000 - 100,000,000 25-99
Small Enterprise Business 500,000 _- 10,000,000 6-10
Service 500,000 - 10,000,000 10-49
Manufacturing 100,000,000 - 300,000,000 | 100-150
Medium Enterprise Business 10,000,000 - 150,000,000 | 11-50
Service 10,000,000 — 150,000,000 50-100
Source: Credit and Development Forum, 2016
ote: MFls= Microfinance Institutions.

Table 15: Sige and Employment of Enterprises in Bangladesh, 2013

Cottage and Micro 6,942,891 88.8 13,727,197 56.0 2.0
Small 859,318 11.0 6,600,685 26.9 7.7
Medium 7,106 0.1 706,112 2.9 99.4
Large 5,250 0.1 3,466,856 14.1 660.4
Total 7,818,565 100 24,500,850 100.0 3.1

Source: BBS, Economic Census 2013

Nevertheless, examining aggregates, the total
number of enterprises more than doubled from
2003-2013 (from 3.7 million to 7.8 million),
suggesting an annualized growth rate of around
11.3 percent. Independent data from the number
of microcredit borrowers suggests that most of the
growth came from the cottage and microenterprise
segments. Similarly, employment also doubled
(from 12.3 to 24.5 million), registering an annual
growth rate of 7.1 percent. (See table 15).

Annex 3. Estimation of the Small
Enterprise Financing Gap Using
Bangladesh Bank Loan Data

One possibility of estimating the small enterprise
financing gap is to look at the present structure of
the banking sector loans.

Table 17 presents the total banking sector loan
disbursements to SMEs for FY2016-17. The
total number of accounts for medium enterprises

MSME Activities
Table 16: Distribution of Enterprises by Major Economic Activities, 2013
(numbers in ‘O000)
# % # % # % # % # %
Manufacturing 831.2 12.0 30.9 3.59 3.0 42.4 3.12 59.4 868.2 114
Other industrial activities 26.1 04 78 0.91 0.3 46 0.17 3.2 343 04
Trading and related 3,057.7 | 440 | 5310 | 6180 | 06 89 0.08 15 | 3,589.5 | 459
activities
Transport and storage 1,265.9 18.2 37.7 439 0.2 2.3 0.04 0.8 1,303.8 16.7
Other services 1,766.0 | 254 | 2519 | 29.32 3.0 42.2 1.84 35.0 | 20227 | 259
Total 6,946.9 | 1000 | 8593 | 1000 71 1000 | 525 | 100.0 | 7,818.6 | 100.0
Source: BBS, Economic Census 2013
Table 17: Banking Sector Loan Disbursements to SMEs
Small 328.31 163,482 2.01 859,318 0.4
Medium 392.1 49,881 7.86 7,106 55.2
SME 720.41 213,363 3.38 866,424 0.8

Source: Bangladesh Bank and BBS 2013 Economic Census

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

Table 18: Small Enterprise Financing Gap

Demand 2.01 859,318 1,727.2 1,727.2

Supply 328.3

Financing Gap 1,398.9
Source: Bangladesh Bank and BBS 2013 Economic Census

exceeds the total number of medium enterprises
in the 2013 Economic Census by a factor of
7, suggesting multiple accounts by medium
enterprises — and/ or access to the facility by
large enterprises using smaller accounting units.
The average loan disbursement per enterprise is
Tk 55 million (US$657.8 thousand equivalent),
which implies the absence of a credit constraint for
medium enterprises (on average).*” However, the
total loan accounts for small enterprises amount
to a mere 19 percent of the enumerated small
enterprises in the 2013 Economic Census, which
suggests that there are many financially unserved
small enterprises.

ANNEXES

Table 18 provides an estimate of the small
enterprise financing gap. If the average loan
disbursed in FY2016-17 is a fair representation of
the average loan demand (from small enterprises
that have access to banking credit), multiplying
this with the total number of small enterprises
yields an estimate of Tk 1,727.2 billion (US$20.7
billion equivalent) (or 10 percent of GDP) as the
potential credit demand. In turn, the financing
gap stands at Tk 1,398.9 billion (US$16.7 billion
equivalent) (or 8.5 percent of GDP).

Annex 4. Roles and Activities of Agencies Supporting MSMEs

Ministry of Industry | * Formulates National Industrial Policy, including definitions of Cottage, Micro, Small and
Medium size industries.

+ Handles matters related to micro, cottage industries and SMEs.

* Supervises the functioning of the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
(BSCIC) and the Bangladesh Industrial Technical Assistance Centre; and also has the
SME foundation under its authority (see below)

SME Foundation * Helps implementation of SME policy strategies adopted by the Government.
(under the Ministry | + Provides collateral-free loans to the targeted entrepreneurs of selected clusters and
of Industry) segments through partner financial institutions.

* Organizes national and regional SME product fairs.

* Conducts initiatives to create and develop women ICT entrepreneurs/freelancers/
workforce in collaboration with the Access to Information (a2i) Program and the Bangladesh
Women in Technology (BWIT). Provides various support and capacity building to women
entrepreneurs.

* Conducts studies on various SME sectors in line with the Industrial Policy, including a
needs assessment program to design and implement a cluster development action plan.

* Supports the SMEs with various kinds of services, including helping SMEs identify and
address the challenges in legal and administrative regimes, such as regulatory barriers on
trade licenses, patents and trademarks, product certification, environmental issues, and
so on; Supports technology up-grading, adaptation of advanced/appropriate technologies,
and compliances and certification.

Bangladesh Small + Helps entrepreneurship development through counseling and training.

and Cottage + Provides infrastructure facilities by establishing industrial estates.

Industries + Extends credit facilities to entrepreneurs, prepares project profiles and project appraisal

Corporation proposals.

(BSCIC) + Innovates and adapts appropriate technology in the small and cottage industry (901)
sector, and develops and distributes new designs and prototypes.

* Conducts research, studies and surveys in the SCI sector; collects, compiles and
disseminates technical and other information leading to investments, production and
marketing of SCls.

+ Provides technical and consultancy services for establishing new industrial units and
quality improvements in SCI products.

+ Provides registration services for small and cottage industrial units.

Bangladesh + Upgrading the skills of the industrial personnel in technical fields (light engineering sector).
Industrial Technical | * Disseminates modern technical know-how among industrial personnel.
Assistance Centre * Collects and circulates information relating to industrial productivity.

+ Provides consulting services to industrial organizations and industries, mainly in the
private sector.

* Organizes capacity-building programs in the SME sector.

Ministry of * Supervises the functioning of the Business Promotion Council (BPC) and the Export
Commerce Promotion Bureau (EPB).
Business * Supports the growth of potential industrial sectors that have yet to take off.
Promotion Council | + Facilitates capacity building among the industries involved in BPC.
+ Facilitates market research.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH

MSME Department
of Bangladesh
Bank

* Formulates and implements policies for the development of the SME sector including
through SME financing policies and women entrepreneurship development polices.
Issues guidelines for financing of the SME sector through the banks and NBFls.Monitors
SME loan disbursements, recovery, and so on. Operates various refinancing windows
supported by multilateral donors (such as by ADB, the International Development
Association [IDA]) as well as from its own sources for small entrepreneurs, for example,
implementation of the Financial Sector Project for the Development of SME with the
assistance of the JICA TSL Fund.Promotes financial facilities through banks and
financial institutions for SMEs, women entrepreneurs, and new entrepreneurs. Extends
support for entrepreneur development.

Small and Cottage
Industries Training

* Provides training on various topics related to entrepreneurship and Small and Cottage
Industries.

Institute (SCITI)

Palli Karma * Provides financial assistance and institutional development support to appropriate
Sahayak organizations for implementing sustainable, inclusive financial programs for reduction
Foundation of poverty for the moderate and ultra-poor, small and marginal farmers and micro-

(PKSF): APEX
organization
established by the

entrepreneurs.
Builds and strengthens the institutional capacity of partner organizations.
Programs include: the Enterprise Development Program; the Finance for Enterprise

০

০

Government of Development and Employment Creation (FEDEC) Project, and the Promoting
Bangladesh Agricultural Commercialization and Enterprises (PACE) Project.

Bangladesh * Issues, develops and guides science, industry and technology research to solve the
Council of issues related to the establishment and development of industries.

Scientific and
Industrial Research

০

Conducts research and development of laboratories, institutes and organizations for the
management of science and industry research activities.

Takes steps to commercialize the discovery and innovation arising from research
conducted by the University or any other research institute.

Takes necessary actions to use newly invented methods in the industrial establishment.

০

০

Department of
Youth Development
under the Ministry
of Youth and
Sports

০

Arranges skills development training programs for various vocational activities.
Supports self-employment and entrepreneurship development.

০

Other agencies focusing on specific sectors:

Jute Diversification
Promotion Centre

+* Arranges various training programs for upgrading of skills.

* Organizes fairs and exhibitions, buyer-seller meetings, exposure trips, workshops,
seminars, exchanges of ideas, and so on.

Provides technical information, technology and know-how, design and product
development services, and raw materials through the Raw Materials Bank (RMB), and
so on.

Helps entrepreneurs in selecting the right type of machinery and adopting the appropriate
technology.

০

০

Bangladesh * Supports and formulates plans for development of sericulture and the silk industry.
Sericulture * Supports improved methods of mulberry cultivation, castor cultivation and other related
Development plants, and provides technical advice to the entrepreneurs.

Board * Provides training facilities to silk spinners, weavers and printers, and promotes and
supports facilities for the standardization of silk products for exportProvides arrangements
of credit facilities for Seri culturists.

ANNEXES


Annex 5. General Principles for Settlements constituted “the Credit Reporting

Credit Reporting Systems Standards Setting Task Force”. Box 9 lists the
World Bank recommended five General Principles

To provide a core set of general principles to _ fora Credit Reporting System and Box 10 contains
guide credit reporting systems, the World Bank the recommendations for their effective oversight.
with support from the Bank for Internationa!

Box 9: General Principles for Credit Reporting Systems (CRS)

The General Principles seek to ensure that CRS effectively support the sound and fair extension of credit. As such, they
should also be safe, efficient, and supportive of data provider and consumer rights.

Data

General Principle 1: CRS should have relevant, accurate, timely and sufficient data collected on a systematic basis from all
reliable, appropriate and available sources, and should retain this information for a sufficient time.

Data Processing: Security and Efficiency
General Principle 2: CRS should be efficient and have rigorous standards of security and reliability.

Governance and Risk Management

General Principle 3: The governance arrangements of credit reporting service providers and data providers should ensure
accountability, transparency and effectiveness in managing the risks associated with the business, as well as fair access to
the information by users.

Legal and Regulatory Environment

General Principle 4: The overall legal and regulatory framework for credit reporting should be clear, predictable, non-
discriminatory, proportionate and supportive of the data subject and consumer rights. The legal and regulatory framework
should include effective judicial and/or? extrajudicial dispute resolution mechanisms.

Cross-Border Data Flows

General Principle 5: Where appropriate, cross-border credit data transfers should be facilitated, provided that adequate
requirements are in place.

Roles of Key Players

Role A: Data providers should report accurate, timely and complete data to credit reporting service providers on an equitable
basis.

Role B: Other data sources, particularly public records agencies, should facilitate access to their databases by credit reporting
service providers.

Role C: Credit reporting service providers should ensure that data processing is secure and that is provides high quality and
efficient services. All users having either a lending function or a supervisory role should be able to access these services
under equitable conditions.

Role D: Users should make proper use of the information available from credit reporting service providers.
Role E: Data subjects should provide truthful and accurate information to data providers and other data sources.

Role F: Authorities should promote a credit reporting system that is efficient and effective in satisfying the needs of the
various participants. They should also be supportive of data subject/consumer rights, as well as the development of a fair and
competitive credit market.

Source: World Bank.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH 3৪.

Box 10: Recommendations for Effective Oversight

Recommendation A: Credit reporting systems should be subject to appropriate and effective regulation and oversight
by a central bank, a financial supervisor, or other relevant authorities. It is important that one or more authorities
exercise the function as primary overseer.

Recommendation B: Central banks, financial supervisors, and other relevant authorities should have the powers and
resources necessary to effectively carry out their responsibilities in regulating and overseeing credit reporting systems.

Recommendation C: Central banks, financial supervisors, and other relevant authorities should clearly define and
disclose their regulatory and oversight objectives, roles, and major regulations and policies with respect to credit
reporting systems.

Recommendation D: Central banks, financial supervisors, and other relevant authorities should adopt, where
relevant, the general principles for credit reporting systems and related roles, and it should apply them consistently.

Recommendation E: Central banks, financial supervisors, and other relevant authorities, both domestic and
international, should cooperate with each other, as appropriate, in promoting the safety and efficiency of credit reporting

systems.

Source: World Bank 2011.

Annex 6. Principles for Credit
Guarantee Schemes for SMEs

The World Bank Group and its Financial Sector
Reform and Strengthening Initiative (FIRST) have
launched a new tool to help governments implement
public credit guarantee schemes. The tool is
intended to become the standard for effectively and
efficiently establishing and running public Credit
Guarantee Schemes (CGSs) for SMEs around the
world. The 16 principles cover four key areas that
are critical for the success of CGSs.

Legal and regulatory framework

1. Establish the CGS as an independent legal
entity.

2. Provide adequate funding and keep sources
transparent.

3. Promote mixed ownership and treat minority
shareholders fairly.

4. Supervise the CGS _ independently and
effectively.

Corporate governance and risk
management

5. Clearly define the CGS mandate.

ANNEXES

6. Set a sound corporate governance structure
with an independent board of directors.

7. Design a sound internal control framework to
safeguard operational integrity.

8. Adopt an effective and comprehensive
enterprise risk management framework.

Operational framework

9. Clearly define eligibility and qualification
criteria for MSMEs, lenders, and credit
instruments.

10. Ensure the guarantee delivery approach
balances outreach, additionality and financial
sustainability.

11. Issue partial guarantees that comply with
prudential regulations and provide capital
relief to lenders.

12. Set a transparent and consistent risk-based
pricing policy.

13. Design an efficient, clearly documented, and
transparent claims management process.
Monitoring and evaluation

14. Set rigorous financial reporting requirements
and externally audit the financial statements.

15. Publicly disclose non-financial information
periodically.

16. Systematically evaluate CGS performance
and publicly disclose the findings.

Annex 7. Fintech Solutions

Fintech companies have emerged with
innovative solutions that can substantially
improve efficiencies at each step of the lending
process.

Loan origination. Fintech can reduce the costs
for banks to originate loans. For instance, an
aggregator’s platform or an online loan comparison
platform can be used as alternate channels for
customer origination. Sophisticated e-Know Your
Customer (KYC) solutions can be embedded for
digital on-boarding and verification of customers,
and chatbots can improve customer experience.

Underwriting. Fintech can leverage alternative data
(such as utility bill payments, social data, mobile
phone data [such as call records], text messages,
psychometric data, and so on) to determine the
creditworthiness of potential borrowers through
alternate credit scoring solutions. Manual intensive
tasks such as an analysis of a borrower’s bank
statement, or a company’s financial statements
and tax documents can now be automated through
Fintech solutions, thereby drastically reducing the
credit assessment time. Other solutions such as
geo-tagging can provide additional information
about the existence of the borrower’s property.
These can help financiers access additional
information about small businesses, make more
informed credit decisions, and potentially reduce
collateral requirements.

Disbursements and collections. For instance,
the National Payments Corporation of India
has developed innovative products that can be
leveraged to automate installment collection.
E-mandate and pull payment facilities are helping
financial institutions to collect payments on time
with minimal manual intervention. Aadhar e-sign
can facilitate loan disbursements.

Service and monitoring. Early warning systems
that use multiple structured and unstructured
data points assist financial institutions in loan
monitoring by assessing the potential to default.

Fintech models can also provide end-to-end
solutions for the lending value chain or “full
stack lending models”.

Marketplace (peer-to-peer) lending. This is a full
stack disruptor across the lending value chain.
It provides credit to MSMEs (and individuals)
through online platforms that match lenders
(savers, investors) with borrowers. The speed and
convenience of such loans, as well as the absence
of a need for collateral, are important advantages.
They can also result in lower interest rates if the
low cost of structures is passed on because they are
technology based. As such, the need for physical
facilities and staffing is much more limited.
Moreover, the regulatory environment is also far-
less expensive in terms of capital adequacy, reserve
requirements, and so on. Marketplace lending to
MSMEs has taken off (World Economic Forum
2015). In 2016, the peer-to-peer (P2P) lending
market in China, the United Kingdom and the
United States was estimated to be around US$89
billion, with China alone accounting for US$66
billion. It is estimated that 60-80 countries now
have marketplace lending for MSMEs. In Africa,
marketplace lending is increasing, particularly in
Kenya, Ghana, Tanzania and Zambia.

Technology platforms for invoice and value
chain finance. Platforms can streamline factoring
solutions, allowing MSMEs to sell accounts
receivable to third-party financial institutions
more efficiently. Small business owners can
directly connect their accounting software to the
invoice finance platform, apply for a loan, and
receive payment almost instantly as the application
is processed mostly automatically. Fintech
companies such as MarketInvoice (based in the
UK), Fundbox (United States), NoviCap (Spain)
and Finexkap (France) have grown significantly in
recent years. Receivable exchanges using digital
platforms such as NAFIN in Mexico, TREFI in
Peru and TREDS in India are also on the rise.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Furthermore, useful information is generated
about the MSMEs that can benefit lenders, for
instance the value and frequency of purchases,
which is also a proxy for sales; the number of
years in business; the location of the business, and
so on.

Access to credit can also be expanded using
the digital footprint created by MSME
transactions. Leading e-commerce enterprises
such as Amazon, Alibaba and e-Bay have entered
the lending market by offering lines of credit to
MSME vendors. Payment processors such as
PayPal and telecommunications companies are
also engaged in this segment. As transactions
are online and customers are well-known to the
creditors through their transaction data, working
capital and expansion programs can be supplied at
a relatively low cost. The acceptance of electronic
payments, such as M-Pesa, enables merchants
to leverage data to obtain access to finance. All
digital transactions of merchants can be tracked
and provide information about the merchants’
operations and creditworthiness. This source
is utilized, among others, by Amazon (USA);
Alibaba (China); Rakuten (Japan); PayPal (USA);
Square Capital (USA); iZettle (Sweden); and
Telemex (Mexico). The market is very lightly
regulated, which also lowers the transaction costs.

Technology can also help to improve
MSME operational efficiency and become
more competitive, consequently improving
opportunities to acquire external financing.
This includes virtual support in the preparation
of business plans, the running of 0161
businesses, improvements in business processes,
inventory management controls, and so forth.
Complementary analytical applications can
process the data generated by firms’ transactions
in order to provide valuable insights for financial
planning, inventory management, and 98193
strategy purposes.

ANNEXES

The Bali Fintech Agenda: A Blueprint for
Successfully Harnessing Fintech’s Opportunities.
The Bali Fintech Agenda, developed jointly by
the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank Group, proposes a framework of high-level
issues that countries should consider in their own
domestic policy discussions with regard to Fintech.
It is a set of 12 policy elements (listed below)
aimed at helping countries to harness the benefits
and opportunities of rapid advances in financial
technology that are transforming the provision of
banking services, while at the same time managing
the inherent risks.

* Embrace the promise of Fintech.

* Enable new technologies to enhance financial
service provision.

* Reinforce competition and commitment to open,
free, and contestable markets.

* Foster Fintech to promote financial inclusion and
develop financial markets.

* Monitor developments closely to deepen the
understanding of evolving financial systems.

* Adapt the regulatory framework and supervisory
practices for orderly development and stability of
the financial system.

* Safeguard the integrity of financial systems.

* Modernize legal frameworks to provide an
enabling legal landscape.

* Ensure the stability of the domestic monetary and
financial systems.

* Develop robust financial and data infrastructure
to sustain Fintech benefits.

* Encourage international
information-sharing.

cooperation and

* Enhance collective surveillance of the
international monetary and financial systems.


FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

REFERENCES

Acharya, V. V., Agarwal, A. & Kulkarni, N. (2010). State Ownership and Systemic Risk: Evidence from the
Indian financial sector during 2007-09. Unpublished paper, NYU-Stern, New York.

Barth, J., Caprio, G., & Levine, R. (2006). Rethinking bank supervision and regulation: until angels govern.
New York: Cambridge University Press.

Bertay, A., Demirgiic-Kunt, A., & Huizinga, H. (2015). Bank ownership and credit over the business cycle:
Is lending by state banks less procyclical? Journal of Banking & Finance, 50, 326-339.

Brei, M., & Schclarek, A. (2013). Public bank lending in times of crisis. Journal of Financial Stability, 9(4),
820-830.

Coleman, N., & Feler, L. (2015). Bank ownership, lending, and local economic performance during the
2008-2009 financial crisis. Journal of Monetary Economics, 71, 50-66.

Choi, M. J., Gutierrez, E., & Martinez Peria, M. S. (2016). Dissecting Foreign Bank Lending Behavior
During the 2008-2009 Crisis. Financial Markets, Institutions & Instruments, 25(5), 361-398.

Cull, R., & Martinez Peria, M.S. (2013). Bank ownership and lending patterns during the 2008-2009
financial crisis: evidence from Latin America and Eastern Europe. Journal of Banking & Finance, 37(12),
4861-4878.

Cull, R., Martinez Peria, M.S. & Verrier, J. (2017). Bank Ownership: Trends and Implications. International
Monetary Fund. Washington, DC, USA: IMF Working Paper 17/60.

de la Torre, A., Gozzi , J. C., & Schmukler, S. L. (2017). Innovative Experiences in Access to Finance:
Market-Friendly Roles for the Visible Hand? World Bank. Washington, DC, USA. doi: 10.1596/978-0-
8213-7080-3.

Ding, I. S. (2005). Politicians and banks: Political influences on government-owned banks in emerging
markets. Journal of financial economics, 77(2), 453-479.

Iannotta, G., Nocera, G., & Sironi, A. (2007). Ownership structure, risk and performance in the European
banking industry. Journal of Banking & Finance, 31 (7), 2127-2149.

Iannotta, G., Nocera, G., & Sironi, A. (2013). The impact of government ownership on bank risk. Journal
of Financial Intermediation, 22(2), 152-176.

Levy-Yeyati, E. L., Micco, A., & Panizza, U. (2004). Should the government be in the banking business?
The role of state-owned and development banks. Inter-American Development Bank. Washington DC,
USA: Research Department Working Paper 517.

Luna-Martinez, D., & Vicente, C. (2012). Global survey of development banks. The World Bank.
Washington, DC, USA: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 5969.

Micco, A., & Panizza, U. (2006). Bank ownership and lending behavior. Economics Letters, 93(2), 248-
254.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


Rudolph, H. (2009). State financial institutions: mandates, governance, and beyond. The World Bank.
Washington, DC, USA: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 5141.

Shleifer, A., & Vishny, R. (1998). The grabbing hand: Government pathologies and their cures. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.

The World Bank (2012). Global Financial Development Report 2013: Rethinking the Role of the State in
Finance. Washington, DC. doi: 10.1596/978-0-8213-9503-5.

REFERENCES

FINANCE, COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION INSIGHT | FINANCIAL INCLUSION, INFRASTRUCTURE & ACCESS

ENDNOTES

Throughout this document, all amounts have
been converted from and to US$, using the
effective exchange rate as of December 31,
2018.

Given resource limitations, it consolidates
background literature research, and relies on
available data and focused interviews with
government officials and stakeholders. The
interpretation of quoted data varies based on
the MSME definition deployed by each source.
Conclusions are feasible from drawing on
overall trends, and should be approached with
caution. Recommendations draw on global
experience, adjusting for Bangladesh’s present
socio-economic context, policy and regulatory
environment, as well as an assessment of
reform feasibility in the short to medium term.

Knowledge gaps include the number and type of
MSMEs, value added and growth, employment
size and growth, and so on.

There is a wide literature about the broader
MSME financing challenges. For example,
Beck and Demirguc-Kunt (2005) provide
evidence from a study of 70 countries that
small firms face larger growth constraints and
have less access to institutional finance.

This is a program funded by the Government of
Bangladesh and the European Union.

Long-term finance and capital markets
development are the subject of an ongoing
World Bank-IFC exercise called 07০
Joint Capital Markets Initiative (JCAP).
Fundamental impediments to development
include: (i) the distortionary effects of National
Saving Certificates on government security
issuance (and the establishment of a risk-free
yield benchmark) and on the distribution of
long-term savings (excluding institutional
investors); (ii) the high dominance of and

9.

liquidity in the banking sector, resulting in
competitive yet short-term funding, which
leads to restrictions in other forms of corporate
fundraising; and, (iii) cultural constraints,
whereby family-centric ownership structures
raise obstacles to equity stake dilution; (iv)
court system strengthening, and removal of tax
distortions and legal impediments; and (v) the
existence of very few institutional investors,
with the market dominated by merchant banks.

Depending on their sizes, loans can be
considered microloans or microenterprise
loans.

It is understood, for example, that 80 percent of
BRAC Bank’s loan book to SMEs is currently
provided to the “trading” sector.

Firms with higher employment are likely to
have higher capital intensity of production per
worker, as well as higher production volume
per worker to benefit from economies of scale.
Microenterprises in urban areas are likely to
have higher production costs per worker —and
a larger scale of production per worker to offset
the cost effects.

. The total loans disbursed in Table 5 includes

loans for all purposes (that is, personal loans,
home loans, education loans, agriculture loans,
and so on). They are not just direct support
to microenterprises. However, these loan
disbursements can be regarded as beneficial
support to cottage and microenterprises.

. Some 87 percent of the credit comes from

MFIs, charging an average interest rate of 23-
24 percent. The prevailing market interest rate
from the commercial banks is in the 10-12
percent range.

. Annex 3 describes an estimation of the small

enterprise finance gap using BB loan data.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


13.

It estimated how much credit-constrained firms
would borrow to define the counterfactual under
which the gap exists, as well as the bankability
of those currently un-/under-served, that is,
how much financial institutions would want to
finance to define the gap on the supply side.

. The NSDC was established in 2004. Its main

goal is to ensure the comprehensive and
coordinated development of SMEs across all
sectors. Among its key achievements are the
following: (i) setting a common definition
for SME (2004) and redefinition (2014); (ii)
establishing a periodic census for statistical
updates; (iii) crafting the SME Development
Framework, the SME Master Plan and the SME
Act Framework; and (iv) establishing a Central
Coordinating Agency (CCA) as a platform to
gather the latest information and monitor the
SME programs by the Ministries and Agencies.

. Several articles, including Aziz and Siddique,

“The role of Bangladesh Bank in promoting
SMEs’ access to finance in Bangladesh”,
International Journal of SME Development Issue
2, 2016, review the role of the Bangladesh Bank
in promoting SME financing and development.

. The Bangladesh Bank recently updated its

definition of micro, cottage, and small and
medium enterprises in line with the National
Industrial Policy 2016 (see annex 1), including
an update of the lending targets for MSMEs.

. In each rating scale, the risk weights vary for

MSMEs and large firms. Rating | is for the best
client and Rating 6 is for the riskiest client, that
is, the one with the lowest rating. It is observed
that the risk weight is always higher for large
firms compared to MSMEs under similar ratings
with two exceptions (firms under Rating 1 and
Rating 6 have similar risk weights regardless of
size). Computing ratings for firms is not always
feasible since it is a very costly process, even for
large firms. Even if a rating is not determined,
the capital gains of lending to even an unrated
MSME are significantly higher than lending to
an unrated large firm. Additionally, large firms
under Rating | and Rating 2 are hard to find.

ENDNOTES

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25

. Currently, most credit rating agencies are

providing rating services for SMEs.

. Accordingly, all banks/financial institutions

have established a dedicated desk for women
entrepreneurs.

Bangladesh Bank offers several refinancing
schemes for women entrepreneurs in cottage,
micro and small enterprises, as well as agro-
businesses. Under these refinancing schemes,
loans for women can be taken at 4 percent
interest, including a 5 percent bank rate, that is,
9 percent in total.

An amount of Tk 8.2 billion (US$98 million
equivalent) had been refinanced to women
entrepreneurs until mid-2014 for a total of
10,214 enterprises.

Aziz and Siddique, “The role of Bangladesh
Bank in promoting SMEs’ access to finance
in Bangladesh.” International Journal of SME
Development, Issue 2, 2016, reviews the role
of the Bangladesh Bank in promoting SME
financing and development. It also summarizes
the various financing support provided by the
Bangladesh Bank.

Their capital shortage has _ significantly
increased since 2016, with negative capital
to risk weighted assets in three cases. Non-
performing loans vary from 20 to 55 percent,
including a failure to keep the required loan-
loss provisions in three cases.

United Kingdom Department for International
Development (DFID) Bangladesh, “Research
study on review of SME credit-related
policies of Bangladesh Bank: Areas of further
improvement with a focus on micro and small
enterprises”, 2016, and World Bank, “The
impact study on financial sector project for
the development of small, medium enterprises
(FSPDSME)”, 2018.

. According to a 2017 Bangladesh Institute of

Bank Management report, default loans in
the SME sector have increased by more than
eight times in the last seven years. Notably, in

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

line with the performance of their overall loan
operations, the rate of SME non-performing
loans (NPLs) in the case of state-owned banks
is very high. This has given rise to views that
the main culprit is SME loan disbursement
targets in the presence of unmitigated adverse
selection.

According to the Bangladesh Bank guidelines,
unsecured lending is permitted for loans smaller
than Tk 1 million (US$12 thousand) (and
smaller than Tk 2.5 million [US$29 thousand]
for loans to women entrepreneurs).

A recent IFC study focused on the issue of
increasing financing for women entrepreneurs
in Bangladesh (IFC 2016). The study was
entitled: “Mapping the market potential and
accelerating finance for women entrepreneurs
in Bangladesh”. Notably, non-direct-finance
activities could be important in yielding results,
such as business development services, or
the establishment of the secured transactions
registry (as women are more likely to hold
moveable property).

An expert team comprised of representatives
from the National Board of Revenues (NBR),
the Ministry of Finance and the Bangladesh
Bank could be established to look specifically at
formalization solutions to the MSME segment.

The score is zero because the coverage of the
credit registry is less than 5 percent of the
population.

The current regulation of the CIB in Bangladesh
takes stock of loans over Tk 50,000 (US$598
equivalent) and credit cards over Tk 10,000
(US$120).

There is an ongoing IFC project regarding
movable collateral registry reform. It aims to
establish the requisite legal and institutional
frameworks, as well as raise awareness and
capacity to promote the use of the registry
among stakeholders.

Banks do use other personal guarantees,
hypothecation of goods, and cash flows to

33.

34.

35.

36.

secure loans. However, a bank lending against
the personal guarantee of a borrower or a third
person or cash flow is not regarded as a secured
creditor.

From the most recent Doing Business 2018
rankings for Getting Credit, Bangladesh scored
5 out of 12 points on the strength of its legal
rights index, which measures the effectiveness
of regulations on non-possessory security
interests in movable property (see table 10).

Bangladesh has long had in place laws related
to insolvency, such as the Insolvency (Dacca)
Act of 1909, the Insolvency Act of 1920, and
the Bankruptcy Act of 1997.

The survey indicates that the enforcement of a
secured claim can take an average of four years,
cost eight percent of the value of the collateral,
and return no more than 28 cents on the dollar
to the secured creditor. By comparison, the
South Asian average is a duration of 2.6 years, a
cost of nine percent of the collateral value, and
a return of 32.7 cents on the dollar. No direct
evidence is available as to the enforcement
of unsecured claims, but in the comparable
process of contract enforcement, the Doing
Business 2018 report indicates that the process
can, on average, take 1,442 days, and cost 66.8
percent of the value at issue. This would place
Bangladesh as the second worst country in the
world in terms of enforcing a contract in a civil
court. Again, by comparison, the South Asian
average is 1,101 days, and 29.6 percent of the
claim value.

The ground work for establishing ADR was
completed; important changes in the three major
tax laws to include alternative dispute resolution
of tax appeals were enacted (unlocking
US$ 289 million in government revenues);
amendments to the Civil Procedure Code to
include mandatory mediation of commercial
disputes were passed; and awareness about the
impact of an effective out-of-court workout
framework for distressed debtors was raised.

FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN BANGLADESH


37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

Improving the safety and efficiency of, as well
as access to, electronic retail payment services
can bring important benefits to commerce
and overall business activity. Specifically, it
can achieve this through the distribution and
collection of payments made by/to government
agencies, and to payments between individuals,
among other possibilities.

Bangladesh Investment Climate Fund,
“Payment Mechanisms in Bangladesh: A
Baseline Study”. World Bank, 2013

Annex 6 summarizes the “Principles for
Credit Guarantee Schemes for SMEs”, a tool
developed jointly by the World Bank and the
Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening
Initiative (FIRST) initiative to help governments
implement public credit guarantee schemes.

The scheme, nevertheless, can be improved
by upgrading management and staff skills,
providing a better orientation for the exporters
and commercial banks, and _ introducing
operational improvements to product quality
and improving service delivery promptness.

Both pre-shipment and __ post-shipment
guarantees are made. Risk coverage varies from
75 to 80 percent in the case of commercial risks
and 95 percent in the case of political risks.
Guarantees issued during 1978-1995 numbered
5,223, covering an amount of Tk 64.23 billion
(US$268.2 million equivalent). The premium
income was Tk 2.28 billion (US$27.3 million),
claims paid amounted to Tk 1.18 billion
(US$14.1 million) and claims outstanding
amounted to Tk1.64 billion (US$19.6 million).

These options include debt, equity or a hybrid
of debt and equity financing packages. A
detailed review of these financing options in
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) countries can be found
in OECD (2015).

There have been reports of some angel funding.
For example, angel investors are reported to
have funded Chaldal.com, a Bangladeshi startup,
which was launched three years ago. There

ENDNOTES

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

is also some crowd funding. A crowd-funded
documentary titled ‘Startup Dhaka’ inspired a
lot of youth to engage in entrepreneurship. The
documentary, produced by SD Asia, creates
content about startups, entrepreneurs, and
businesses. It raised over US$9000 from 56
backers from around the world.

Examples include the Frontier Private Equity
Fund; Tindercapital; SEAF; Bangladesh
Venture Capital Limited; Venture Investment
Partners Bangladesh; and BD Ventures (ADB
2014; Challenges Consulting 2012).

The main features include loan limits of up to
2.5 million (US$29.9 thousand); loan tenures
of up to 5 years; grace periods of 3 to 6 months;
and repayment methods equal to monthly
installments or structured payments.

These include the availability of data; a
supportive regulatory environment; 07০
availability of sufficient investor capital; and
the spread of financial education to the relevan'
stakeholders. The data requirements are
becoming simplified through technology tha’
has developed user-friendly online application
forms and computer-based risk 83599910011
models. There is also a growing source of
private capital based on the willingness to take
some risks for higher returns, as compared with
low returns from deposits and other financia'
instruments.

In this first phase, the Bangladesh Bank took a
cautious stand regarding the eligibility of MFS
service providers. As a result, competition has
been inadequate, and the range of services
offered by MFS is very limited (Ahmed 2017).

See: https://www.techbullion.com/popular-
fintech-companies-bangladesh/

This is corroborated by other studies (for
example, Khalily and Khaleque 2013),
suggesting that there is little meaningful
distinction between medium and 18159
enterprises, other than that the former are not
likely registered with the stock exchange as
public limited corporations.


€ _ WORLD BANK GROUP

