Ensuring access to financial services


~

&.

a

ask me now whats

BRAC stands fof, Af
_ {like to think that
3 we stand for any |

__idea— an idea 0

১৪ World where
| = everyone has an ০
#. equal Opportunity ~
m,, to realise their
. potenitial:


WHAT IS FINANCIAL INCLUSION?

Financial inclusion means that individuals and businesses have access to useful, affordable
financial products and services that meet their needs. Transactions, payments, savings, credit
and insurance — delivered in a responsible and sustainable way.

THE FINANCIAL INCLUSION LANDSCAPE

1.7 billion adults in the world are unbanked

Nearly half of these unbanked adults live in just seven developing economies: Bangladesh,
China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, and Pakistan. Almost 40% of all unbanked adults in
the world belong to the poorest households within their economy.

50% of adults in Bangladesh do not have access to financial services

Half of the adult population in Bangladesh do not have access to financial services, through a
mobile money account, bank or another type of financial institution.

56% of all unbanked adults in this world are women

Women are over-represented among the unbanked in every economy. More than half of all
unbanked adults in Bangladesh are women, mostly belonging to low-income households.

Source: Global Financial Inclusion Database, 2017

FINANCIAL INCLUSION AND MICROFINANCE

Access to financial services would help to solve some of the world’s most persistent problems
such as poverty and inequality.

Access to finance - be that credit, or savings, is a universal need among all individuals and
families seeking to plan for the future. It is especially essential for people living in poverty who
are financially vulnerable in myriad ways. Limited earning opportunities, irregular income, and
inability to access formal financial services restrict their ability to invest in assets or borrow in
imes of need.

With the help of microfinance, people excluded from the formal banking system can access a
suite of financial services such as credit, savings, and microinsurance products. Microfinance
facilitates families to build assets, smooth consumption, and reduce vulnerability to shocks
such as health emergencies or natural disasters. It also provides an alternative to high-interest
loans from informal lenders or harmful coping mechanisms such as selling productive assets.

PAGE 1


FINANANCIAL INCLUSION IN THE SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS

AND WEL-BENS
SDG 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING:

A A le Financial services facilitate smooth spending and coping mechanisms.

SDG 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH:

“4 Microenterprise loans boost entrepreneurship and employment in the country, a

key driver for economic growth.


ABOUT BRAC

BRAC’s vision is a world free from all forms of exploitation and discrimination, where everyone
has the opportunity to realise their potential.

Founded in Bangladesh in 1972, BRAC acts as a catalyst, creating opportunities for people
to transform their lives. BRAC uses an integrated model to change systems of inequity,
through social development programmes, humanitarian response, social enterprises, socially
responsible investments and a university.

The organisation has an annual expenditure of more than USD 1.1 billion, with the majority
self-financed from its enterprises, and operates in conflict-prone and post-disaster settings in
11 countries across Asia and Africa.

PAGE 3


BRAC MICROFINANCE

Creating access to financial services has been central to BRAC’s holistic approach to development.
Our microfinance activities complement our other social development interventions by offering
a powerful combination of services for people to build stable, healthy and empowered
livelinoods.

We recognise the heterogeneity among people living in poverty and develop customised
financial products that caters to various demographics in Bangladesh. Beyond tailored loans,
we also provide short and long-term savings, insurance and access to mobile money services.
We promote responsible financial behaviour among our clients and have instituted a range of
client protection measures that distinguish us for our commitment towards client-centric
service delivery. We integrate technology to improve operational efficiency and offer higher
value to our clients. This includes incorporating digital financial services and digitising core field
operations and processes.

Over the last four decades, BRAC Microfinance has grown to become one of the world’s
largest providers of financial services, operating in seven countries across Asia and Africa.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

> Loans for Women

Monthly Profit <q

> Small Enterprise
Scheme

Loans

Deposit Premium

CREDIT SAVINGS
Scheme

> Agriculture Loans

General Savings <

> Jobholder Loans

Special Savings

for Migrant
10105

All clients are able to
save with the bKash-
enabled deposit
premium scheme and

Borrowers are
able to secure
their loans in
case of death of

a family member MICRO DIGITAL earn higher returns.
and হাতি an INSURANCE FINANCIAL BRAC also provides
SERVICES customer assistance

additional case
benefit against a
fixed premium.

with openning and
using bkash accounts.


CREDIT PRODUCTS

Innovative, client-centric and responsibly delivered, our credit products are tailored to meet the
unique needs of different demographics.

Loans for women

Since the very beginning, we have primarily focused on equipping women with access to
financial services to increase their opportunities for economic empowerment.

Our loans are collateral-free and given exclusively to individual women through a group setting,
known in BRAC as village organisations (VOs). A village organisation is a women-led platform
with 15-25 women, for clients to come together to deposit their instalments and savings,
share information and improve financial awareness.

Borrowers utilise loans to buy productive assets, invest in business or property, enable smooth
consumption, and manage shocks. Where there is demand, BRAC further supports these
activities with its network of social enterprises. This approach strengthens supply chains of the
clients’ enterprises and give clients access to quality inputs, proper training, and marketing
support, while also reducing vulnerability to market shocks.


Small enterprise loans

Small enterprise loans are offered to entrepreneurs to invest in existing small enterprises,
which are too small to qualify for credit from mainstream banks. The loans provide flexibility for
entrepreneurs seeking to expand their businesses. This supports employment generation and
helps drive local economies and inclusive growth.


Jobholder loans

Jobholder loans are specifically designed for low to moderate salaried workers of Bangladesh
who often face difficulties availing finance from mainstream banks. These loans provide

access to flexibility and convenience for jobholders to take loans without any collateral or
previous credit profile.


Agriculture loans

Our financial services are specifically designed for different farming groups to provide them
greater returns from their harvest.

- Borgachashi Unayyon Project (BCUP)

BCUP is a project aimed towards facilitating access to finance for small-holder tenant
farmers who do not own farming lands. Our loans enable farmers to invest for higher crop
yields, adapt to new agricultural technologies, and invest in household labour supply.
Along with the loans, BCUP clients are also provided with market linkage services.

- North-west Crop Diversification Project (NCDP)
Second Crop Diversification Project (50101)

NCDP and SCDP projects promote yield of high-value crops such as fruits, vegetables,
spices, condiments, and flowers. Our loans foster the production of nutritional food and
non-traditional crops, and enable farmers to gain higher financial returns.


15 ৪

HASNA BEGUM

My husband used to manage our automobile repair shop which was our only source of
income. | was shattered when he passed away. Managing our business became difficult,
but giving up was not an option. | took my first loan in 2012 to cover the loss. | have come
a long way since then. | never looked back.

PAGE 9

Loans for migrant households

Loans for migrant households supports foreign employment opportunities and economic
stability for the families of migrant workers. It also enables them to invest in business and

improve the stand

- Migration

ard of living from the po

loans

Migration loans are provided to

complemen

ed with services from 8

orientation and post-migration re-in

- Remittance loans

Offers flexibii

ential rise in income.

migrant workers seeking employment abroad,
RAC’s migration programme such as pre-migration
egration.

ity to migrant househo!

ds to make significant expenditures, while families

wait to receive and save remittances sent from abroad by a family member.

PAGE 10


SAFESAVE

SafeSave was founded in 1996 by Stuart Rutherford, a British researcher and consultant
specialising in financial services for those living in poverty in Southeast Asia. BRAC took over
SafeSave in 2013. SafeSave is a customised financial service for people living in the urban
slums of Dhaka, Bangladesh. It provides flexibility for people living in slums to deposit savings
and loan instalments every day. Clients do not have any fixed term or repayment schedule. In
the communities where SafeSave operates, anyone can be a member.

PAGE 11


ZAHIRUL ISLAM

A very close friend died in a horrible accident while | was living in the Middle East. The news
of his death broke me emotionally. | decided to return. When | started my autorickshaw
business here, | initially faced a loss worth almost USD 23,000. But | did not give up. |am now
running my business in six districts across Bangladesh, with 300 autorickshaws that created
job opportunities for many others.

PAGE 12

SAVINGS PRODUCTS

Families can invest, plan for the future, enjoy smooth spending and cope with shocks with access
to savings facilities. We provide four types of savings schemes in Bangladesh.

General savings
Micro-savings accounts for clients enabling them to save any amount and receive interest securely.

Monthly profit scheme

Long-term savings accounts whereby clients deposit a fixed amount upfront and receive monthly
interest until the end of the agreement, along with the principal amount.

Deposit premium scheme (DPS)
Long-term savings accounts for clients to make monthly fixed deposits each month for a high

return at the end of the agreement. This can be paid either in cash or via mobile money.

Special savings

The Special savings project was established to promote savings behaviour among clients and
provide greater financial security in the future. Clients have the opportunity to avail five schemes:
a regular DPS product, double savings scheme in 7 years, 1.5 times increase of savings in 4.5
years, a monthly profit basis savings scheme, and lastly, a fixed deposit.


OUR SERVICES

Customer service assistants (CSAs)

Customer service assistants are the first point of contact for clients walking into a branch
office. CSAs provide orientation to clients before loan disbursements on our product and
services, and one-to-one consultations to address client queries. Through CSAs, we aim to
promote financial literacy, awareness of clients’ rights and responsible financial planning and
decision-making. CSAs also assist clients in opening bKash accounts, BRAC Bank’s mobile
money subsidiary.

॥

|

PAGE 14
জারা

Microinsurance

In the event of a death, low-income households often resort to selling assets, and cut back on
essential expenses such as their children’s education. Families also resort to borrowing money
to cover debts and funeral costs. Insurance enables households to safeguard their finances
and cope with immediate financial shocks in the event of a death of an earning family member.

Our microinsurance product, Credit Shield Insurance, is mandatory for ‘exclusive loans for
women category, and complimentary service for other borrowers. Availing this service at the
time of taking the loan would protect the insurer and any family member in the case of death
or disability, with an additional cash benefit to cover funeral costs, against a fixed premium.



NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

We are constantly trying to serve our clients’ needs by introducing new products and improving
operational processes by investing in technology.

Seasonal loans

The six changing seasons of Bangladesh allow farmers to harvest different crops for each
season. Seasonal loans provide farmers with a convenient repayment scheme, allowing them
the flexibility to invest and start paying their instalments with the provision of a two-month
grace period. The pilot is on-going in 17 rural branch offices. Additionally, we are also providing
seasonal loans in char (riverine island) areas in collaboration with Swisscontact.


Sanitation loans

We are collaborating with BRAC WaSH programme to provide finance to entrepreneurs to invest,
and families looking to improve sanitation standards in their homes. The loan is divided into
four categories: 1. Development of new/modern latrines 2. Loans for placing safe drinking
water tubewells 3. Placing/setting new water pumps and water tanks 4. Entrepreneurs working
with sanitation and water-treatment plants.


Financial services for ready-made garments workers

The ready-made garment (RMG) sector in Bangladesh consists of over four million workers - 64%
of whom are women. BRAC’s microfinance programme has undertaken two initiatives to
provide financial services to RMG workers.

- Empowering the readymade garment (ERMG) project

In collaboration with BRAC’s urban development programme, we are providing financial
services to RMG workers living in urban areas. The ERMG project partnered with 29
RMG factories to offer holistic services to the RMG workers through 3 one-stop service
centres. The centres are located in close vicinity to RMG factories in Tongi, Savar, and
Gazipur. We are offering long-term savings through deposit premium schemes (DPS) for
all clients.

- Client interaction point (CIP)
We have established six client interaction points

CIP) in four RMG factory zones: Gazipur,

Savar, Naraynganj, and Dhaka in Bangladesh. CIP works as a one-stop service point for
both male and female workers to access financial services, reducing the inconvenience
of depositing instalments during working hours or travelling to branch offices to take
loans. Through CIPs, clients can avail loans, deposit instalments and savings via cash or
bKash and also take assistance to open a bKash account.


Medical treatment loans

Low-income households face economic distress during times of unforeseen health crises. We
are collaborating with James P Grant School of Public Health and Heidelberg University to pilot
medical treatment loans (MTL) to support families to cover medical expenditures. MTL is
aimed towards clients, who can avail loans upon providing a prescription from a doctor of their
own choice with an MBBS degree. Instalments vary from 12 to 24 months, depending on
previous loan repayment records.

Partnership with Shop Up

BRAC microfinance, in collaboration with Shop Up, an e-commerce platform, is working
together to deliver innovative financial services to entrepreneurs across Bangladesh. The
partnership is piloting a loan product which uses Al crediting rating system, for small-scale
Facebook-based entrepreneurs in Bangladesh. This innovative partnership is one of its kind in
the microfinance sector and BRAC’s first product in e-commerce.



DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION

We ar
opera

branches, digital devices for instalment collection and insurance claim settlements.

Digital financial services

Digital

delivered through digital channels. We began DFS in 2012, allowing clients the provision to

send

seven

e focusing on digitising delivery channels and incorporating technology in core field
ions. We aim to offer greater value for clients through mobile money services, cashless

financial services (DFS) is defined as a broad range of financial services accessed and

heir DPS instalments via bKash, BRAC Bank’s mobile money platform. We also operate
mobile based microfinance branch offices in Southeast Bangladesh to eliminate the

difficu
(0901),

ties of long distance travel for clients living in the remote, riverine islands (char), wetlands
and hard-to-reach areas.


Digital field application

We have completely digitised the process of instalment collection by traditional ‘passbook’
with an application that enables field staff to instantly record client payment information and
view transaction histories via handheld Android devices. Piloted in 2014, the system was
officially scaled nationwide in 2017.

SMS pilot

We began the "SMS Pilot" project to make the financial transaction experience more
accessible and secure for our clients. The system allows clients to receive real-time updates
of instalments and savings through SMS after every transaction without having to use the
passbook.


Digital claim process

We are piloting a digital claiming processing system for our credit shield insurance product in
Bangladesh. Previously, it would take three days on average to settle a claim, while being
dependent on couriers to deliver claim documents, and tracking submitted claims from all
parts of the country. The new time and cost-efficient digital model will ensure quicker
settlements for clients, enabling households to safeguard their finances in the event of a death
or disability of an earning family member.

SMART CERTIFICATION

BRAC is the first organisation in Bangladesh, and the largest in the world, to be recognised
with Smart Certification for upholding universal standards for client protection as determined
by the Smart Campaign.

7 principles of Smart Certification

Appropriate product design and delivery

Prevention of over-indebtedness

Transparency

Responsible pricing

- Fair and respectful treatment of clients

Privacy of client data

Mechanisms for complaint resolution

the ২

Ss m a rt Keeping clients first
in microfinance

campaign


9211910 yg 60119103 58198610
9002 0109151!01

980169। 9z Buenos sayouesg
2002 U! payeniuy

atom 40} sueoio:

sLondoud

sayoueig ৪
6102 Ul payentul

আ/এ

saljunoa 9 ul sayou
8002 U! payentul

seyeJs pur suoibed / ul seyourig oS
8102 Ul payentul

YVINNVAIN

91113985918
71011143111 9৬৪8

59159 pue 910169। Z| ul 99015


BRAC BRAC UK BRAC USA

BRAC Centre 19 Wootton Street 110 William Street, 18th Floor
75 Mohakhali, Dhaka-1212 London, SE1 8TG New York, NY 10038
Bangladesh T: +44 (0)20 3434 3073 T: +001 (212) 808 5615
T: +88 02 9881265 E: info@bracuk.net E: info@bracusa.org

W: www.bracuk.net W: www.bracusa.org

/BRACworld

Design: Asiatic Marketing Communications Limited/2020


