aida A এ. FH Bank Asia টি

4 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

Welcome!

Welcome to the Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women created in response
to the overwhelming need for material that empowers women financially and takes them on a journey

of learning and growth. This project is based on the vision to have socially and economically empowered
women who act as agents of change in their own lives for a more equitable world. The aim is to positively
influence financial attitudes and behavior in women, increase levels of financial literacy, enhance access to
financial services and further facilitate inclusion. We hope that this curriculum also takes you on a journey
that you find stimulating and rewarding and that helps you develop as a facilitator.

Who are the women in the group?

This program is for women from rural, poor backgrounds. Generally, they are day labourers, with limited
educational qualifications. Many of them will have completed a few years of primary education, and some
not even that. Despite a lack of formal schooling they remain full of intelligence, ideas, energy and creativity.
They might not feel this way about themselves however, which is why the sessions encourage them to take
charge of their lives, building their confidence and ensuring inclusion among participants.

It may be the case that you have women in your gatherings with different levels of numeracy and literacy.
Please try to ensure that those women with lower reading or mathematical levels are paired up with women
who have higher levels. We cannot over emphasize the importance of this.

You the facilitator

Your familiarity with the reality of their lives is one of your greatest assets. By the time you come to use this
curriculum, you should have completed an intensive Training of Trainers (ToT). On that course, you will have
become familiarized with many of the methods employed in this manual, and with the overall structure of
the program. However, even the best ToT can only achieve so much. A good facilitator needs to bring a wide
range of skills, knowledge and attitude on her own. You should;

+ Enjoy working and engaging with others

+ Have excellent communication and group facilitation skills.

+ Be ready to learn and revise your own opinions.

+ Be confident and willing to use a range of group facilitation techniques.

+ Be informed about basic entrepreneurship principles, financial literacy, life skills and the local job
market.

+ Foster an environment of respect where women feel comfortable to voice their views and concerns.
Let the women make mistakes and feel free to talk!

+ Be enthusiastic about the program and content.

+ Benon-judgemental, impartial and value diversity.

+ Accept feedback from the women as a gift.

+ Have a sense of humour!

While the above is not a comprehensive list, it is a great starting point.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 5

INTRODUCTION

What is your role as facilitator?

A facilitator is different from a teacher. Traditionally, a teacher talks and participants listen. For you,

the opposite will be more normal; i.e. hopefully the women will be talking and you will be listening.
Traditionally, a teacher gives participants answers. Your job is more about asking questions. A teacher wants
participants to memorize. You want to help them think. In a classroom, the teacher is the center of attention.
The only time the women talk is to answer a question the teacher has put. In a workshop, the women are
the center of attention and it is they who do most of the talking. The teacher's job is to listen and help
guide their thinking by asking questions. A classroom is often a silent place. A workshop is often a noisy
place. In a classroom, a teacher stresses that there is only one correct answer to a problem. In a workshop,
the facilitator helps participants realize that there can be many different ways of looking at an issue. In a
classroom, women only talk to the teacher. In a workshop, they constantly talk and listen to one another.

While a teacher focuses on delivering content to an audience, a facilitator focuses on helping the group
teach itself. A facilitator helps bring out and make clear what a group already knows. A facilitator is rather
like a guide, helping the group to focus on the task so as to arrive at a shared learning. A facilitator focuses
on processes in the group as much as on content. Content is the ‘what’ of the session. Process is the ‘how’,

Processes are patterns of communication or of decision-making within the group. Who talks how much to
whom? Who is typically silent? Who do you maybe need to encourage to participate more? Who do you
need to rein in to prevent her from dominating? These are important points for you to notice and focus on.
Sometimes the facilitator just notices these patterns of interaction and uses them to do things differently.
For example, if the facilitator notices that some people are always talking while others are usually silent,
one method would be to invite the silent members to share their views. The other option available to the
facilitator is to make an observation about a process in the group — perhaps saying something like ‘only a
few people seem to be talking; the rest are silent! When a facilitator makes a process observation like this,
they are holding up a mirror for them to see themselves in. Hopefully this will help the group to work more
efficiently.

Keep it local!

+ Use simple language as much as possible, this includes using local languages when required.
+ Encourage women to answer questions and summarise their points during the sessions, using their
own dialect and terms.

+ Use real-life examples and local case studies to help make your points.

Creating a good environment

+ Make sure the training environment is one of mutual respect, trust and enjoyment. It helps to
set some ground rules during your first session with the women addressing, for example, time
management, punctuality, phone use and group work rules.

+ Learn the women’s names as soon as possible! It will be easier to command both individual and
group attention in the classroom.

+ Be patient! Repeat any information if the women do not understand, and be prepared to change
your training approaches if what you are doing is not working.

+ Request regular feedback after each session, to gauge what activities they enjoy the most, what
training approaches they are most receptive to and what they would like to see more of in future
sessions.

6 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

INTRODUCTION

Structure of the Curriculum

Women will not learn well or develop the necessary skills and attitudes to become successful entrepreneurs
until they have begun to form a strong group identity. They will probably also need time in which to realize
that these workshops are governed by very different rules and norms than those they may remember from
school. In other words, we need to give them time in which to readjust their assumptions. This is particularly
true of their role as individuals. We need to begin our work with the women by demonstrating to them that
this project is not just for them, it is about them. The first session will allow them to be introduced to the
concepts of this program and understand inclusion.

Session structure

The one-hour sessions will consist of you taking the women through a variety of tasks that generally
involve them in discussions or activities. There is no place in this program for lecturing. Sessions will involve
interactive learning methods and will require the participants to engage in an inclusive manner. At the end
of each session, participants will reflect on the key messages of that day’s learnings and prepare for the
week ahead, building up on the topics of each session.

Bangladesh and beyond!

This curriculum has been developed for the Bengali context. It can however be used in other countries or
regions following a simple process of contextualization. We very much hope to see that happening.

We wish you the best of luck taking this curriculum forward, inspiring the women and supporting them
along their journey to fulfill their dreams.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 7

8 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


10 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

INTRODUCTION

Overall Outcome
Women are made aware of the programme and its objectives

Lesson Objective
By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Understand the Bank Asia/ UNDP Programme
2. Define inclusion and commit to the rules of the group
3. Learn more about the mobile banking app

Methodology

+ Start: Icebreakers

+ Learn: Committing to the programme
+ Reflect: Hopes and Fears

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words
+ Inclusion
+ Commitment

১ 6 ©9

Information for the Facilitator

+ It is common for participants to be quite anxious or nervous during this first session. It is good
to get started with an energetic icebreaker to help them get acquainted and ease any fears
they may have.

@

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 11


GETTING TO KNOW EACH OTHER: PAIRED INTERVIEWS

1.

oe Start
©

Begin by having the participants pair up and ask them to interview each other for five
minutes each. Suggest they ask the following four questions:

Where did you grow up?

What type of career do you want?

What is one thing that nobody else in the group knows about you?

What do you want to learn in these lessons?

After 10 minutes, bring the group back together.
Do: Have the participants introduce their partners to the group and to share what they
learned about them.

iv) Learn
COMMITTING TO THE PROGRAMME

1.

2.

30m

Do: Ask the participants what brought them here today.

After allowing the participants to provide their answers, explain the following:

- The programme is about learning the basics of saving, spending, setting goals and
budgeting. The aim of the sessions is to help you build useful financial habits, develop a
healthy attitude when it comes to finances and learn how you can become more financially
responsible by using digital banking.

Say: It is important that everyone in the program has the opportunity to engage, participate
and feel welcomed. We're going to come up with a set of rules to make sure that everyone
participates accordingly and everyone is included.

Ask: What does the word ‘inclusion’ mean?

Explain: Inclusion means including, and being included within a group.

Ask: What kind of rules do you think are important for the club, especially regarding inclusion
within the programme? How can we work together to make sure everyone is included?

Do: Come up with a set of rules for governing behaviour in the club. Do not offer ideas but
rather take suggestions from all the participants. Make sure everyone agrees with the rules. If
there is a rule that someone doesn’t agree with, ask them why, and decide how the rule can
be modified to be more agreeable.

@ Reflect

@ .
15m 2
3.
4

HOPES AND FEARS

Begin by asking the participants how they are feeling.

Say: It is natural to feel either excited or anxious at the beginning of a workshop or training.
We are going to work together now on our hopes and fears about this programme. It will help
us if we are all open and honest about our feelings.

Ask participants to reflect on their hopes for these sessions (what they hope they can achieve,
or learn) and fears that they have (things they feel uncomfortable about).

Do: Walk around the room and ask participants for some of their hopes and fears. Write
these down. After a few minutes, read aloud some of the hopes and fears you gathered from
the participants. You may notice that many participants have the same feelings about the
program. Reassure them that this is normal, and you will be challenging their fears during the
sessions.

12 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 13

14 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


16 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

NEEDS AND WANTS

e868 6 8 ©9

Overall Outcome
Women describe their basic needs and why they are important.

Lesson Objective
By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Distinguish between needs and wants.
2. Identify basic needs in their lives.

Materials

+ 8'coins’ (rocks, beans, other similar objects) per person
+ Ball or object than can be safely passed around (rolled up paper or rolled up ball of yarn)

Methodology

+ Start: Spending Needs and Wants discussion and activity
+ Learn: Prioritizing exercise

+ Reflect: Group Discussion

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words
+ Need
+ Want
+ Prioritize
+ Saving
+ Expenses

Information for the Facilitator

+ For the Learn activity to create ‘coins, use objects such as rocks, stones, buttons, bottle tops or
even recycled paper to represent the coins, as opposed to actual coins. Ask the participants to
help you collect enough material for the activity.

+ The purpose of this session is to encourage participants to prioritize saving their money (or
resources) over spending their money. During the session, challenge the participants to think
critically about what they really need to buy.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 17


মী
y SESSION TWO
VW

o Start
SPENDING NEEDS AND WANTS DISCUSSION IN PAIRS
1. Say: The purpose of this session is to think about prioritizing saving money over spending
money. You will be challenged to think critically about you really need.
Sm 2. Have the participants engage in a quick discussion by asking the following question:
What are the main things people spend money on?
3. After you read the question, give them one minute to turn to the person next to them to
answer.

4. Ask for feedback by encouraging volunteers to share their ideas with the whole class.

FACILITATOR’S TIP:

In case you would like to discuss the definition of needs and wants, please find them described
below:

Needs: Things that we need to survive, can’t live without or are mandatory for participants
Wants: Things we would like to have

Saving: Collecting and keeping money we earn, usually with a goal in mind of something we
want to do with the money later

Spending: Using money to buy things or pay for things we need or want

iv) Learn
SPENDING NEEDS AND WANTS ACTIVITY (15 MINUTES)

1. Assign three different areas of the room to represent the following: essential spending
(needs), desirable spending (wants) and a middle priority which reflects spending demands
that lay somewhere in the middle.

2 Explain: The three parts of the room represent different kinds of spending habits relating to
different priorities.

ও. Say:|am going to read out a series of items and you should stand in the area of the room
that corresponds with kind of spending habit this purchase belongs to (i.e. if you think this
item is a priority to buy, then you would stand in the area designated to needs).

4. Read out the following items, one at a time and allow sufficient time for participants to run to
the designated area.

+ Soap
+ TVSet

Cellphone with airtime

Money for soda

Shoes

Sanitary pads

Necklace

Lotion

Underwear

Earrings

+ Food

18 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

+ Water

+ Awatch

+ Saving for the future

Invite volunteers to share their reasoning.

When you read out Saving for the Future, see where participants go and reinforce the
importance of saving for future needs.

Say: Saving for the future is really important and something we will talk about a lot in the
club. Saving and budgeting are very important activities to manage our money and to help
us make sure we have enough money for things we need, emergencies, and to reach our
future goals.

Discuss how some things might not be considered essential, and yet are important for overall
well-being (e.g. hobbies and holidays).

COIN ACTIVITY (20 MINUTES)

1

2.

Do: Give each participant five items that represent coins.

Explain to the participants that they need to identify five items they normally spend money
on and things they would like to buy. Give them a few minutes to think about and identify
these items. It’s important that they have a mix of routine items such as spending money
on bus fare or lunch versus things they would like to have, such as special clothes or a new
version of something they already have.

When they have done so, explain that each item is worth one coin, and that they are to

choose the items from their list that they would like to buy. Be sure to point out that they do

not need to buy all five of the items if they don’t want to.

Ask: some volunteers to share their results. Ask them to explain:

+ What they decided to buy and why

+ What they decided not to buy and why

+ How much money they saved (how many coin-like items they had left over from the initial
five)

Explain: Once they have done so, explain that the financial decisions we make should take

into consideration our Needs and Wants.

Do: Ask the participants to repeat the activity with this in mind, and to compare their first

and second rounds when they are done. Encourage the participants to think about how their

strategy changed and if they saved money from the first to the second round.

Say: Discuss how this exercise would be useful in enabling them to prioritise between their
needs and wants, and in making a sound financial decision.

@ Reflect

KEY MESSAGES DISCUSSION

10m

1

Say: During this session, we learned how to better understand the difference between needs
and wants and how saving and budgeting wisely helps us to have enough money for the
things we need in real life.

End the session by asking the participants to think about the following points as you
continue to learn about saving and spending in the upcoming sessions:

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 19

+ When you want to buy something or spend money, it is important to first identify it is a
need or a want.

+ We should prioritize saving for needs. But it’s also okay to budget for, and buy things that
we want as long as we save and spend wisely.

+ It is important to think about your budget for any purchase. Very quickly buying
something can mean you have no more savings if you don’t take time to stop, think and
consider first.

3. Do: Asa final activity, you are going to throw the ball around to get participants to answer a
question. First, read them this question and give them one minute to think quietly about their
answer:

+ What do you think it means to spend your money responsibly/wisely? What choices can
you make every day about buying, saving and spending that will help you have more
money for needs?

4. Take out the ball and explain that you are going to throw it around the room. As each person
catches it, they need to say one choice they can make each day that will help them save and
prioritize better.

+ For example, they may say that in order to save up for new shoes that they need, they will
save money by not buying a soda and sweets.

5. Throw the ball around until everyone has given an answer.

20 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

PUNDP Bangladesh/ SWAPNO-2018


22 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

WHY SAVE

e868 6080 ৪৬

Overall Outcome
Women use savings as a tool to improve one’s life and the lives of others.

Lesson Objective
By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Distinguish between different saving options.
2. Describe the benefits of different savings strategies

Materials

+ A ball or object that can be safely passed around (such as a rolled-up paper, a ball of yarn etc.).

Methodology
+ Start: Take a Stand

+ Learn: Savings methods and the safe and unsafe ways to save
+ Reflect: Learning about savings priorities

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words

+ Saving

+ Planning

+ Managing

+ Savings Method

+ Savings Priority

+ Safe and Unsafe Places to Save

Information for the Facilitator

+ Inthe learn activity, the participants will talk about different ways of saving. If they don’t
suggest the digital banking methods, make sure to use probing questions so they will come up
with that option.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 23

o Start
TAKE A STAND

1. Start the session by explaining to the participants that today, you will be talking about saving.
Explain: Saving is when we put money aside and do not use it.

Say: | am going to say something and you will have to quickly stand up if the statement
applies to you:

+ You have a sister

+ You are married

+ Favourite colour is purple

+ You do not save money

+ Donot know how to save

+ Wish you knew how to save

+ Are saving money for something important

+ Think saving money is hard

+ Think saving money is important

3 Ask:
+ For those who think that saving is important, why do you think so?
(Probe for answers such as: saving money is important because it helps you get the things
you need in life, if you have an emergency you can use your saved money, helps you
improve your life and the lives of those around you)

+ Why do you think saving money is hard?
(Probe for answers such as: Saving money is hard because | do not make enough money, all
my money goes towards the house/family/other commitments)
+ Is there anything that prevents you from trying to save?
(Probe for answers such as: | don’t know how to save, | don’t know where to save my money
safely)
4 Explain: Saving can be achieved through planning and managing our money. Throughout
this session, we will focus more on the different ways of saving, the safe and unsafe places to
save, and saving priorities.

iv) Learn
SPENDING NEEDS AND WANTS ACTIVITY (15 MINUTES)
Explain:
1. Explain to the participants that they are going to learn about, and explore, the different ways
people save money.
2. Ask the participants to stand in a circle and explain the following instructions to them.
Say:
+ You will pass the ball around the circle, and while doing so, you are to think about some of
the ways that people save.
+ Weare all clapping our hands while the ball is being passed around.
+ When | say “stop”, we all stop clapping and the person with the ball in her hands needs to
name a method of saving.
+ When she has done so, | will say “go” and we all start clapping again and passing the ball
around again.

24 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


3. Continue the process until the majority of the group has had a chance to name something.
(Probe for answers such as “at home’, “at the bank’, “through the Bank Asia app’; and
various other methods that are common in their communities).

4. Lead the participants into a discussion.

Ask:
+ What is the most common way that people save their money?
+ Which of these do you think is the best? Why?

ANALYSING THE SAFE AND UNSAFE PLACES TO SAVE (15 MINUTES)

1. Divide participants into groups of four or five.

2. Explain: Explain to them that they are going to recall the methods of saving discussed in the
previous activity (briefly remind them of the various methods in case they have forgotten).
In their groups, they are going to assign a method of saving to each member. They will then
align themselves from least risky to most risky, forming a line from left to right.

3. Give the participants a few minutes to work in their groups, deciding which order to place
themselves.

4. After several minutes, bring the participants back together and ask for a group to volunteer
to show their ranking.

5. After each volunteer has presented, turn to the rest of the group and ask:
+ Who agrees?
+ Who disagrees?
+ Why?

Reflect
WHAT IS YOUR SAVING PRIORITY?

1. Explain: People have many reasons to save. The main reasons people save are:
+ Everyday use: Savings are used for food, rent/bills, clothing, items for themselves and their
family members
+ Emergency Fund: Savings are used for emergencies or crises, such as health issues, loss of
job or income, or major unexpected expense
+ Future goals: Savings are used for future goals such as buying a house, paying for school,
wedding, buying land, starting a business.
2. Assign a place in the room for each of these savings priorities (Everyday use, emergencies,
future goals). When you have determined the three places, instruct the participants.
Say: You have to quickly decide which of these reasons to save is the highest priority to
you. You have 10 seconds to run to the spot assigned to that reason. Ready, set, go!

3. Allow participants a few seconds to run to their selected spot. Ensure everyone has gone toa
spot in the room. Once everyone has chosen their spot,
Say: Spend a few minutes discussing with the other people in your location why you
think this reason is the highest priority.

4. After you have given the participants a few minutes to discuss amongst themselves, have
each group briefly explain their reasoning. After each group presents, turn to the rest of the
participants,

Ask: Who agrees? Who disagrees? Why?

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 25

5. After the discussion is over, bring the participants back together.
Explain: There is no right or wrong answer for saving, and a person's reason for saving
can change over time. It can be very difficult to save for all three reasons, so a person
must decide which is most important for their situation and needs.

26 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


28 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

SETTING GOALS

e
গু

ed 6 @

@

Overall Outcome
Women can identify their goals and how finance relates to achieving them.

Lesson Objective

By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Distinguish between a goal and a dream.

2. Identify their individual goals, and the steps to achieve them.
3. Relate finances and financial education to achieving a goal.

Materials

+ Sumaya’s Story
+ A3 size paper and pencils to draw vision diagrams.

Methodology
+ Start: Describe and distinguish Goals and Dreams
+ Learn: Case study
+ Reflect: Stand in the Circle

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words
+ Goals

+ Dreams

+ Achieve

+ Goal setting

Information for the Facilitator

+ The story of Sumaya has been written to appeal to the local setting of this session. However,
contextualisation may be necessary.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 29


WHAT IS A GOAL? WHAT IS A DREAM?
Say:

1. Today we are going to work on setting goals. Can anyone tell me what is a goal and what is
a dream? - Take examples of both from the participants before you go on to describe and
differentiate the two.

Explain:

2. Goals and dreams are different. Dreams are more like fantasies that we wish could come
true and we think about often. For example (give examples the participants used). Goals are
things that we want in the future (such as having a house, getting a job). While dreams do not
need work, goals do. You can make your dreams into goals, which come true by working hard,
such as saving money, limiting your spending, changing your budget, and planning. We will
learn more about all of these concepts throughout the sessions.

o Start
©

15m

3. Tell participants to think about their goals. Say: Now that you know what a goal is, close your
eyes and imagine your life in five years from now. Think about how old you will be, what you
will be doing, and what events will be happening in your life. Now, think about one specific
goal that you hope to be achieving, or working to achieve, in five years.

4 Do:Give each participant an A3 paper, and instruct them to draw where they see themselves
in five years from now. Ask them where they see themselves in relation to their goals- which
may be financial (starting a new salon, establishing a catering business, getting a loan, buying
anew piece of land), related to their children (children can now go to a good school, can eat
three times a day), or families (better house or living space, a good bed), community (more
unified community that helps each other when needed).

5. Next, have all the participants stand up. Explain that you are going to say a series of
statements, and they should clap if it applies to their goals.

+ Clap your hands if you will need money to achieve your goal
+ Clap your hands if you will need to borrow some money to achieve your goal
+ Clap your hands if you will need to spend some money to achieve your goal
+ Clap your hands if you will need to save some money to achieve your goal
+ Clap your hands if you will need to work with others to achieve your goal
+ Finally, clap your hands and stomp your feet if you will need a combination of all above
statements to achieve your goals
6 Explain: Finances and planning are important parts of achieving goals. That’s why learning
about spending, saving and planning is an important step in goal setting.

iv) Learn
HOW DO WE ACHIEVE GOALS: CASE STUDY

1. Read the case study below aloud to the participants.

30m

SUMAYA’S STORY
Sumaya is 30 years old and married to Tariq. Together, they have three children. Sumaya loves
to go to weddings with her family and friends. She loves seeing all the colours, jewelry, fabrics

30 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

্

SESSION FOUR Xi
২২১

and how people dress up. Her favourite part is the mehndi design that is applied to the bride’s
hands. As Sumaya’s favourite subject in school was art and she was very talented in drawing,
she always looks forward to applying mehndi on her friends and cousins’ hands in weddings.

Last month, Sumaya’s cousin Farhana got married. At Farhana’s gaye holud and mehndi
ceremony, Sumaya did the mehndi design for her cousin and some of the younger girls.
Everyone was impressed with the beautiful designs that Sumaya created. After this, Sumaya
was motivated to start doing mehndi designs for people on special requests at their weddings.
She then decided that she could start charging for her services and thus start her own business.
It would also be a great way to make some extra money to send her children to school.

First, Sumaya had to figure out how she would manage her time. She has household duties and
has to look after her children as well.

Luckily, Sumaya was able to have help from her sister, Nabila, who lived close by. Sumaya’s
children would go over to Nabila’s house after school so that she could finish the duties

at home and prepare the food and clean up afterwards. This gave her more time to work
efficiently at home and allow her some free time to work on her business.

Once Sumaya came up with her scheduling that would allow her to run her business, she
needed to save money to buy the supplies. Every week, she set a little bit of money aside.

Even if it was only a small amount, she would save as much as she could. She also cut back on
expenses. Instead of buying packaged food, she would make it at home, which costs less. In the
beginning, it seemed as if she wasn’t saving much, but as time went on, her savings grew.

Next, Sumaya was ready to buy the supplies: The mehndi, brushes, mixing bowls, cotton balls,
and a box to carry it all in when she visits her customer’s at their home.

Now, Sumaya runs her mehndi design business. She is becoming very popular in her
community, especially during the wedding season. Sumaya has also started making money to
support herself and her family.

2. After reading the story, ask the participants the following questions:
Ask:

+ What happened in the story? (Sumaya had an idea of starting her own business, came up
with a plan, identified obstacles she needed to overcome to achieve her plan, creating
savings goal in accordance with her savings plan and achieved her goal).

+ What was Sumaya’s dream? (To do mehndi designs)

+ How did she turn her dream into a goal? (By identifying a goal and planning)

+ What obstacles did Sumaya overcome? How did she overcome them? (Managing her time
and buying the supplies. She overcame it with the help of her sister, prioritizing household
tasks and saving a little bit of money every week to buy the supplies).

+ What can you learn from Sumaya’s story about achieving goals? (You may run into
obstacles but you can overcome them. You will most likely to need to save and plan before
you can begin your business, you have to brainstorm ways and come up with solutions in
order to make your business a success).

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 31

Reflect
COLOURS OF THE CIRCLE

গু 1. Have all the participants gather into a circle while standing.
15m 2 Say:lam going to call out a colour. Whoever is wearing that colour should jump in the
middle of the circle. When you are in the middle, you should explain a goal you have and
what you think you can do to achieve it.
3. If there are several people wearing the same colour, make sure they take turns stepping into
the middle of the circle. There should only be one person explaining their goal at a time.
4. Keep calling the colours until everyone has had a chance to be in the middle of the circle.

32 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

“SUNDP Bangladesh/ SWAPNO-2018 _


34 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

SAVINGS GOALS AND SAVINGS PLAN

e

e868 6 ©

@

Overall Outcome

Participants learn to set basic savings goals and understand the basic elements of a savings plan
so as to meet those goals.

Lesson Objective

By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Prioritize expenses according to their personal priorities.

2. Establish a savings goal and create a savings plan to help them reach it.

Methodology

+ Start: Reviewing our Savings Goals
+ Learn: Group Activity and Creation of a Savings Plan
+ Reflect: Group discussion

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words
+ Save

+ Plan

* Goal

+ Dream

Information for the Facilitator

+ It is important to explain in this session how in conjunction with having a savings goal, you
need to have a plan. As mentioned in the previous session, goals cannot actualize without
implementing and following a savings plan. Additionally, it is useful to emphasize the
efficiency of planning with a digital banking app.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 35

o Start
1

Do: Instruct participants to remember the goals they established in the previous session.
Remind them that a savings goal can be as simple as saving to buy a new pair of shoes.

Say: Today, we are going to work on making a savings plan for our savings goals. A savings
plan is a tool you can use to help you save money in order to achieve your goal.

Explain: How the app can be used with a savings plan. You can set up automatic transfer so
that your money direct goes into your savings account so that you do not spend it. Because
this is done automatically, you do not need to worry about remembering to do it every
month/week. You can also save more through digital banking because you will collect 4%
interest annually (every year). If necessary, explain what interest means to ensure the women
have an understanding.

FACILITATOR’S TIP:
Interest can be defined as the money you earn on top of your own money when you keep it in
the bank.

1

40m 2

Do: Put participants into pairs

iv) Learn
MAKING A SAVINGS PLAN

Say: Tell them they are going to work together to develop a saving's plan in order to achieve
a savings goal
Explain they will be considering the following:
+ How much money will you need to achieve those goals?
Ask them to identify their savings goals (you can provide examples of items that they might
be saving for such as a sewing machine, cooking pots, a mobile phone)
Do: Remind them that short-term goals might require a few weeks or months (up to six
months), while long-term goals may take six months to several years to achieve.
Say: In your pairs, select one of the participants’ goals. Then, use the following questions to
form your savings plan [Facilitator's Tip: You will need to identify this orally as literacy levels
will not be sufficient enough to read/write these down]:
+ Savings Plan:

+ Savings Goal: Is it a short term or long-term goal?

+ Total amount needed: How much money is needed to achieve this goal?

+ By when?: When do you need to have saved this money by, or when do you need to

have achieved this goal by?
+ Amount to save every week: How much money will you need to set aside weekly to save
the amount you need by the time needed.

After participants have put together their savings plan, ask for a pair to volunteer to present
their savings plan.

Ask the following questions:

+ What is your goal? Is it a short term or long-term goal?
+ How much money do you need to achieve this goal?

36 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

10m

+ When do you need to achieve this goal by?

+ How much money will you need to set aside weekly to save the amount you need by the
time needed.

8. What kind of obstacles can we run into with our savings plan?

[Probe for answers such as not saving enough every week, some weeks our expenses may
be higher than others]

Q Ask: What can we do to overcome these obstacles?

[Probe for answers such as setting realistic amounts to save every week, saving more when
we can]

Reflect
GROUP DISCUSSION

©.

Do: Start a discussion with the group using the following questions:

+ What was your reaction when you saw the amount you needed to save to help reach some
of your goals?

+ What did you learn from this activity?

+ How will making a Savings Plan help you?

+ How can you earn the money to achieve your savings goals?

+ What will you do differently now that you know how to make a Savings Plan?

Say: Making a plan is a great life skill, both for financial and non-financial goals. Making a

plan helps you to better understand what you need to do and it helps to make you more

successful in reaching your goals. A savings plan shows you that it is possible to save for your

goals by even making small changes or just saving small amounts of money at a time. The

next important skill is saving and spending your money as responsibly as possible, which we

will learn about in the next sessions.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 37


38 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


40 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

SPENDING & SPENDING RESPONSIBLY

Overall Outcome
Participants learn to become responsible spenders and consumers of resources.

Lesson Objective
By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1, Understand the importance of spending money responsibly.
2. Identify how saving and spending links to personal and community goals.

Materials

+ A4size paper and pencils

Methodology

+ Start: Definitions and Take a Stand
+ Learn: Spending Scenarios

+ Reflect: Pair Activity

Duration
60 minutes

e868 6080 ৪৬

Key Words

+ Spending

+ Saving

+ Budgeting

+ Financial Responsibility
+ Consumers

+ Expenses

3 Information for the Facilitator

+ Spending responsibly goes hand-in-hand with saving responsibly. It is a skill that also requires
discipline and careful planning. We have all heard many stories of friends or family members
who have overspent or lived beyond their means _ and the stressful consequences. This
session reviews the practical steps of spending money responsibly.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 41

মী
y SESSION SIX
VW

o Start
DEFINITIONS (10 MINUTES)

1. Divide participants into groups of 6. Assign one of the key words to each group: Spending,

Saving, Income, Financial Responsibility, Consumers, and Expenses

20m 2. Explain to the groups that they have already seen many of these words before and hopefully

they remember the definition. But some words are new. Tell each group to decide together
on one image that could represent this word/phrase.

3. Give them 5 minutes to draw the image. Ensure them the drawing can be simple and does
not have to be beautiful.

4. Ask one volunteer from each group to quickly stand, show their image, say the word, and give
a definition for it. Confirm that it is correct or explain if they don’t have it quite correct.

FACILITATOR’S TIP:

See below for definitions of the terms:

Spending: Give money to pay for goods or services

Saving: Money that has been put away and not spent

Income: Money received, usually for work

Financial Responsibility: Managing your money and resources in a responsible way, also
described as “living within your means”

Consumer: Anyone who is purchasing or using something

Expenses: Spending money to buy goods or services

TAKE A STAND (10 MINUTES)

1. Say: Review the instructions for this game:

+ Iwill read a statement and you will need to decide whether you agree or disagree with it.

+ There are no right or wrong answers, and it is okay to disagree with your friends.

+ When | read the statement, close your eyes so you can't see anyone else’s response.

+ If you agree with the statement, put your hands on your head. If you disagree, put your
hands on your knees.
+ After everyone has made a choice for each statement, I'll ask you to open your eyes and
look around the room. You will quickly divide into agree and disagree: all those agreeing
will meet on the left side of the room and all those disagreeing on the right side.

+ Iwill then ask you to share your reasons _ to Take A Stand — for your decision.

2 Do: Read the statements listed below in order. After each statement, give them time to run
to the correct side of the room and then spend two minutes discussing the participant's
responses. Use the follow-up questions below each statement for guidance. Once the
participants have shared some of their ideas and thoughts, have them return to the center of
the room and close their eyes. Then read the next statement. There are 3 total statements.

STATEMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS:

+ |can save money for my future
+ Why/why not?
+ How do you plan on saving money for your future?
+ Why do you want to save?

42 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

+ It is important to spend money responsibly

+ Why/why not?

+ What does it mean to‘spend responsibly’? (Answer: Spending responsibly means that we
take into account our budget and our needs and wants when making purchases or paying
for things).

+ It is important to use resources responsibly

+ Why/why not?

+ What does ‘using resources responsibly’ mean? (Answer: Using resources responsibly refers
to conserving, reusing, recycling, repairing or repurposing items and materials in order to
save on expenses and live more sustainably).

+ What type of resources should we use responsibly?

+ Water
+ Food

+ Oil/gas
+ Wood
+ Paper

iv) Learn

30m

1. Say: When you are thinking about spending, a responsible way to consider your expenses is
ask yourself these three questions:

+ Can you afford it? (consider your income and expenses - is it too expensive in comparison
to what you earn?)

+ Doyou really need/want it? (what is really important for you/to you? What are your
personal goals?)

+ Are you hurting anyone by buying this? (e.g. clothing that has been made by people
working for less than a living wage and in poor conditions, products that are bad for the
environment and are unsustainable)?

2 Do: Divide the participants into groups of five or six.
ও. Say: Explain that you are going to read two scenarios. After reading each scenario they

will have 5 minutes to discuss it and come up with some advice for the character, using the

questions/tips you shared in the beginning about spending.

4. Read out the following scenario:

Sadia is a 32-year-old woman who loves to sew embroidery and textiles. She wants to buy a
new sewing machine as her current one is getting old, but she could probably repair it to make
it last a little longer. Sadia has 2 children who are in school, and she has to pay for their school
textbooks next month. She doesn’t know if she should use the money on the sewing machine
or the school textbooks.

+ What advice would you give to Sadia?
+ What about the three questions? How could Sadia use those three questions to help make
a decision?

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 43

5. Read out the second scenario:

Reema is a 27-year-old woman. She would like to have some new pots and pans for her house
as the ones she has are getting old and worn out. Near her house, there is a little stall where she
can buy them. The owner of the stall is a family friend who knows that Reema does not have a
lot of money. The set of pots and pans are 300 BDT more expensive here than if she were to buy
them in the regional capital, which is about 20km away by bus. The cost of the bus ticket is 30
BDT. Reema likes to go to the city with her sister.

+ What advice would you give to Reema?

+ What about the three questions? How could Reema use those three questions to help
make a decision?

6. After 15 minutes, ask some of the groups to share their advice.

@ Reflect

REFLECT AND CLOSE

rx) 1. Do: Place the participants to form pairs.
2 Ask: Ask them to share two key things they will consider when making spending choices in
the future.

10m

3. Give them a few minutes to discuss this with each other, and then ask two or three pairs to
share their discussions with the group.

4. Ask the participants:
+ How can you apply what you learned in today’s lesson to your life?

5 Say:| hope you see now how it is very important to save AND spend responsibly. You have to
do both to be successful in having enough money for your goals, needs and some wants.

44 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

SAVING REGULARLY

46 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

SAVING REGULARLY

e868 6 ©9

@

Overall Outcome
Participants realise saving can be easier when you decide to save regularly.

Lesson Objective
By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Understand how saving on a regular basis will help you reach your goals.
2. Realise that even with little savings you can accomplish something bigger.

Methodology
+ Start: Stand up, Sit down

+ Learn: Saving regularly using the app
+ Reflect: Saving scenarios

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words

+ Saving

+ Formal and informal savings
+ Routine

Information for the Facilitator

+ The focus of this session is to emphasize that saving is more efficient when it becomes a
routine habit. Saving regularly, even in small amounts, is a more feasible way to save than
saving lump sums. Additionally, understanding how the banking app can assist with saving,
and how saving in this method ensures a safer savings account and better saving behaviours
should be emphasized in this session.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 47

Start
START: STAND UP, SIT DOWN

Start the session by explaining to the participants that today, you will be talking about saving.
Explain: Saving is when we put money aside and do not use it. For example, have you ever
needed to buy something and put some money aside until you had the correct amount to
make the purchase? That is saving!

2 Ask: Do you also do this? Can you describe how? (Help them reflect and share a few examples
of how they do everyday savings)

3 Say:!am going to say something and you will have to stand up if you think the statement is
true, and sit down if you think it is false
+ You shouldn't have to save, your husband should save for you
+ Saving money is only for wealthy people
+ Saving a little bit each month can add up
+ People like me don’t make enough money to save
+ Saving money will give me a better future

4 Ask:

+ After each statement, ask participants why they think that statement is true or false? Allow
participants to discuss.

5 Explain: Saving can be hard but you don’t need a lot of money to get started. Saving
becomes easier the more regularly we save. Once it becomes a part of your routine, you can
slowly start to build up a savings to achieve your goals.

Learn

HOW TO SAVE REGULARLY WITH THE APP

Do: Gather the participants around and start a discussion about saving methods that they
use. Ask: What savings methods do you, or someone you know, currently use? These can be
informal methods, such as saving money in a box at home, saving money with a group of
people, etc. Allow participants to give their answers.

After participants have discussed their savings methods; Ask: What are the advantages and
disadvantages to these kinds of saving methods? [probe for answers such as it is unsafe,
you are more tempted to spend money when it is easily accessible, you can easily give away
money if it is very accessible]

Explain:

3.

Explain to participants that, for a lot of people, saving money can be hard because they don’t
know how much to put aside and how often. The easiest way to get into the habit of saving

is to have things automatically set up, that way you don’t have to remember to make the
payment and you won't be tempted to miss a month, or put a little less into your savings than
you should. It is important to save regularly. Something that can help you save regularly is
digital banking.

Ask:

Follow up by asking what could be some possible challenges when using the app? What are
some advantages of using it? What do you think is more beneficial to use: a formal method
such as the app or something more informal like saving in a secret place at home?

48 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

/
SESSION SEVEN Xi
৬২২

@ Reflect

SAVINGS SCENARIO

@ 1. Read out the following story to the participants and follow up by asking the questions listed

15m below:

Nasima and Mousumi are two friends that live in the same area. They've decided that they

will work together in a tailoring business. They realized that they needed to buy a new sewing
machine and different threads. They figure out the price of everything they're going to buy and
plan to save regularly — each will save 200 BDT weekly for 10 weeks until they reach their goal
savings of 4000 BDT.

In the beginning, they both save regularly and stick with their plan. However, after a few weeks
Nasima started spending a lot of money on food and items for her house, as she had some
family visiting from faraway. Then, she also had to buy some school supplies for her kids, as
school was starting. During this time, she didn’t set any money aside. When Mousumi asks
Nasima how the saving is going, Nasima tells her that she hasn't saved anything that week, and
that saving can be harder for her depending on certain events or times of the year. However,
she tells Mousumi not to worry and that she'll start saving next week.

+ What do you think about Nasima’s spending and saving habits?

+ How do you think it will affect their ability to start their business?

+ Why can saving be harder at certain times? What kind of events prevented Nasima from
saving?

+ Doyou think Nasima will be able to save?

+ How could they save more easily? (Having an automated system, such as the mobile
banking app)

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 49

50 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

United Nations Development Programme | | | | fo
GENERIC
;*<
er

04561410214184

BUDGETING BASICS

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 51

52 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

BUDGETING BASICS

e

e868 6 8 ©

Overall Outcome
Women learn the importance of carefully planning, budgeting and managing resources and
understand how these relate to their lifestyle.

Lesson Objective

By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Become better planners and decision makers in matters related to finances.
2. Explain how making and following a budget can help people save money.

Materials

+ Budget template prepared on a flipchart
+ Paper

+ Pens/Markers

Methodology

+ Start: Group Brainstorming
+ Learn: Making a Budget

+ Reflect: Mingle Game

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words

+ Budgeting

+ Income

+ Expenses

+ Saving

+ Decision-making
+ Managing money

Information for the Facilitator

+ The learn activity may be difficult to conduct due to the low literacy levels. If so, modify the
lesson as much as possible in order to conduct it orally. It may be beneficial to carry out the
activity as a whole group; have the participants watch you complete a hypothetical budget
template and ask them for their input as you fill it outand how saving in this method ensures a
safer savings account and better saving behaviours should be emphasized in this session.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 53

৫

Start
START: BUDGETING BRAINSTORMING
1. This activity is very hard to conduct without a bit of reading and writing. If making this
budget template is not feasible, conduct the entire activity orally and assist participants with
calculations. Alternatively, you can make a budget and the participants watch how it is done,
while you ask them questions.

2. Begin by asking participants the following questions:
Ask:
+ What are the three most important things that you have to spend money on each month/
week?
+ How do you make sure there is enough money for these things?
3. If they haven’t mentioned the word ‘budget; introduce the word. Ask participants if they
know what a budget is.
Ask: Who knows what the word ‘budget’ means? What are some important things to think about
when making a budget?

Answer: A budget is a tool that helps you spend your money responsibly. You can use budgets to help
you with your personal and household spending. There are many things to consider when making a
budget — needs, wants, income, expenditures

4. Say: In this session, you will practice making a budget, and understand how it helps you
manage your money responsibly.

5. Inorder to get participants into the mindset of budgeting their expenses, have them think
about some of the things they've recently spent money on.

6 Do: Quickly call out a colour or a letter and have a participant who is wearing that colour or
whose name starts with that letter give an example of something they spent money on in the
past week/two weeks. Inform them that any answer is acceptable.

Learn
MAKING A BUDGET
1. Now that participants have quickly brainstormed what a budget is and what they’ve recently
spent money on, they will work on making their own household budgets.

2 Do: Introduce the budgeting template found below. As literacy is not strong in the group,
make the budget template more visual with pictures as much as necessary, or inform them
that the left side indicates “Money In” and the right side indicates “Money Out”.

FACILITATOR’S TIP:
If the budget template is too advanced for participants, conduct this activity orally

54 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


INCOME EXPENSES
(IN) (OUT)

TOTAL: TOTAL:

3. Explain the two parts of the budget.

4 Say: A budget is made up of two parts: Income, which means the money that is coming in
and Expenses which are the things we need, or want, to spend money on - money that is
going out. We are going to start with income. Think of all the different incomes or sources of
money that you have coming in to you this week. Put that in the income section.

5. Say: Now, think about the things that you need to spend money this week, such as food, bills,
household expenses.

6. Give participants 10 minutes to make their budgets. Walk around the room to assist them.

7. Explain: A good budget is when the total income is MORE than the total expenses. If your
expenses are MORE than your income, then you will need to readjust your expenses. If you
have more money in that out, you can save some of the leftover money.

8 Say: The most important rules of budgeting are:

+ Spend less than you are earning

+ Seta little bit of money aside every week
Reflect
MINGLE GAME

©.

15m

Say: Walk around the room and when | say “Stop”, pair up with the person standing closest

to you. Once you are in your pairs, ask each other some of the following questions for one

minute:

+ Why should the money you get (income) be more than the money you spend (expenses)?

+ Ifthe money you spend is greater than the money you get, what are your choices?

+ Ifthe money you spend is less than the money you get, what are your choices?

+ Whyis it important to budget money?

+ What issues could you face when budgeting your money? How can you overcome these
issues?

Do: After one minute, call out for them to walk around again and repeat the process, using a

different question each time and pairing up with a different person each time.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 55

56 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


58 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

MY ENTERPRISE PART 1:

Learning about Enterprise

e

১ 6 8 ©

@

Overall Outcome

Participants see how small, local enterprises can generate income and understand important
elements of starting a business.

Lesson Objective

By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Identify and describe business and livelihood activities in their community.
2. Brainstorm enterprise ideas and select their best ideas.

Materials

+ True or False questions for the Start activity
+ Questions for the Learn activity

Methodology

+ Start: True or False group activity
+ Learn: Good idea or bad idea activity
+ Reflect: Learning about the business app

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words

+ Enterprise

+ Entrepreneurship
+ Good Idea

+ Bad Idea

Information for the Facilitator

+ When reading out the statements in the start activity, some participants may not be aware
of the term enterprise. As this will be explained further throughout the session, there is no
need to give an explanation at this point. Rather, use the term business instead as this is more
commonly understood.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 59

মী
y SESSION NINE
VW

o Start
ENTREPRENEURSHIP TRUE OR FALSE

1

15m 2

Do: Have two participants volunteer to stand in front of the group. One will represent true

and one will represent false.

Explain: Inform the participants that you're going to read out a series of statements about

enterprise and if they think it is true, they will need to line up behind the true participant, if
they think the statement is false, they will line up behind the false participant.

Say:

TRUE OR FALSE QUESTIONS: ENTERPRISE

Starting an enterprise is impossible for someone like me (False: Anyone can run an
enterprise!)

You have to be rich to start your own enterprise (False: You may need to get financial
support from others, but you don’t have to be rich to get started)

Starting an enterprise needs an idea, a goal/vision, and careful planning (True: there are
many steps needed to start an enterprise)

Running an enterprise means taking risks (True: It can be risky, but that is why you need to
plan carefully)

You need to be well educated to start an enterprise (False: Many entrepreneurs have started
an enterprise without having a degree)

Small, local enterprises can’t generate money (False: Even small enterprises can create
money)

| can start my own enterprise if | am determined (True!)

After each statement, ask a few volunteers from each line why they chose to stand there.
Ask:

+ Why did you choose that answer? Who has a different opinion?

Afterwards, explain whether the statement was actually true or false. Emphasize that now
that they’ve debunked some misconceptions about starting an enterprise, they can begin to
think about an enterprise that they can start.

Do: Start a quick group discussion on businesses they've seen in their own communities.
Ask: What are the businesses you see in your community? What products/services do they
offer? What do you think about it?

iv) Learn
GOOD IDEA OR BAD IDEA?

Do: Divide participants into groups of five.

Say: In your groups, come up with a possible enterprise that you can start. This is just an
exercise, we are just practicing. We are going to learn how to test a business idea to see if it is
a good idea or a bad idea.

Give them five minutes to come up with a possible enterprise.

After five minutes, ask for volunteers to quickly describe their suggested enterprise project.

60 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

5. Explain: that you are going to say some questions, and each group should use these
questions to test if their idea is a good idea or bad idea.
6. Read out the following questions:
+ Would it make you some money?
+ Would it create jobs in your community (does it involve people)?
+ How much fun would it be?
+ Would it cost a lot of money to start?
+ Is there a need for it?
7. Give participants a few minutes to discuss this and ask for volunteers to share their answers.
Their answers to these questions should give them an idea if their business is good or bad.
8 Explain: Explain to the participants that they should think about their answers to those
questions. If their answers implied that the business was a bad idea, what can they change
about their business idea to improve it?
Reflect

15m

HOW TO USE MOBILE BUSINESS BANKING

ও .

Ask: How can an enterprise owner take care of their expenses, income and financial matters?
What is the safest and best way for them to do so?
(Probe for answers that were discussed in previous sessions, such as using formal savings
systems, using digital banking to make sure all their money is secured and they can have
automated banking).

Explain: Digital banking is the best way for an entrepreneur to manage their finances,
especially when starting an enterprise. It helps keep their money in a safe place and build
their interest.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 61


62 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

2012,827018859/1/590-2018

64 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

MY ENTERPRISE PART 2:

Finding a Gap in the Market

Overall Outcome
Participants are able to identify market opportunities in the community.

Lesson Objective
By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:
1. Explain their enterprise idea and how it is addressing a gap in the market.

Materials

+ Pebbles
+ Case study

Methodology

+ Start: Case Study
+ Learn: Group Activities
+ Reflect: Group Discussion

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words
+ Enterprise

উ 6 8 ©9090

+ Services
+ Products

Information for the Facilitator

@

+ Besure to have the case study of Anita on hand as well as all the questions asked in the start,
learn and reflect activities.

+ Inthe learn activity Pass the Pebble, you may instead use any small items that can be passed
around.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 65

মী
y SESSION TEN
VW

o Start
CASE STUDY
rx) 1. Do: Read out the following story to the participants:

15m

Anita is 27 years old. She is a member of a basket cooperative in her rural town. They weave
baskets and use the money they make from the basket weaving to pay for personal items such
as soap. Anita is married and she wants to save so that her and her husband can move to a
bigger home. She is very talented and really enjoys making products by hand but she, along
with the others in the cooperative, are finding it hard to sell their baskets. They sometimes
hear people say “Everyone sells the same things. | wish there was something new”. One day
Anita was watching some gardeners pot their plants. She noticed the plant holder was plain
terracotta and was inspired to make a decorative terracotta plant holder. The next day the
gardeners were all asking about the price of her planter and where they could find more.

2 Ask:

+ What kinds of challenges did Anita face in her basket cooperative?
+ \s it common for co-op members to make the same things?

+ What were the gardeners saying?

+ What did Anita decide to do?

+ What would you suggest to other women in Anita's situation?

3. Say: We noticed that co-op members were making the same things and they were
competing with one another for customers. As a result of co-op members making the same
things, the number of people who wanted exactly the same thing was going down. The
demand for the same product was low. When there was something that gardeners wanted
and that was different, the demand for this went up.

iv) Learn
PASS THE PEBBLE (10 MINUTES)

1. Have the participants form a circle, and hand out the five pebbles to random participants.
30m 2. Inform the group that they will play ‘Pass the Pebble” so as to start thinking about possible
enterprise ideas.
3. Explain the following instructions to the participants:
+ You will need to pass the pebbles around the circle
+ When | say “Stop”, the five participants holding a pebble will (one by one) need to answer a
question | ask
+ Ask the participants to start passing the pebbles around, and use one of the following
questions each time you say “Stop”:

66 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

/
SESSION TEN Xi
৬২২

PASS THE PEBBLE QUESTIONS:

+ What are some things we could sell or make?

+ Who do we think would buy those things?

+ What are some services we could provide?

+ Who might pay for those services?

+ Are other people already making and selling the same things, or offering the same service?
+ What will make our products or services different?

4. Ask the participants if any of them were surprised by anything they heard in the game.

WEIGHING UP OUR ENTERPRISE OPTIONS (20 MINUTES)
1. Ask participants to form groups of five.
2 Explain: Have them briefly think about an imaginary enterprise they can create together.
3. Do: Read aloud the following questions to them and give them about 15 minutes to discuss
(you may need to walk around the room and repeat the questions to the groups in case they
forgot).
+ What kind of product/service are we providing?
+ Who would pay for this product/service?
+ Are other people already making and selling the same things or offering the same
services?
+ What will make our products or services different or better?
+ What are other products we could make from the same material or agricultural product?
+ What would you have to do to test if the product would be attractive to a customer?
+ What are some things | might like/want to buy that aren't for sale in the market?
+ What kind of tools can we use?

4. Quickly have each group present their ideas.

FACILITATOR’S TIP
Walk around the room when groups are discussing together to ensure that you answer any
questions they may have.

@ Reflect

HOW TO USE MOBILE BUSINESS BANKING

গু 1. Gather participants around in a circle and ask them what they thought the key messages are
15m from today’s session.
2. Summarize the key messages as follows:
+ It is very important to try and offer something that nobody else is offering. Don't just sell
what other people are selling.
+ Businesses aren't just selling ‘things’ or ‘products’ You could provide a service. What is
something local people might pay you to do for them?

+ It isn’t easy to come up with a good, original idea. Make sure you spend lots of time
thinking about it.

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 67

68 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


70 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women

MY ENTERPRISE PART 3:

Tne Plan

9 Overall Outcome

To strategize all steps necessary to put an enterprise project into action including market research,
sustainability, materials sourcing, finances, sales and profit.

Lesson Objective

By the end of this lesson, participants will be able to:

1. Describe how their idea is wanted and acceptable in their community.
2. Understand how their enterprise could make money.

Methodology
+ Start: Group Discussion
+ Learn: Business Plan presentations
+ Reflect: Group Discussion

Duration
60 minutes

Key Words

+ Enterprise

+ Entrepreneurship
+ Business Plan

e868 6 ©

Information for the Facilitator

+ Participants may need your assistance preparing for their presentations. As they do not have
the information written down, they may need help recalling the 6 parts of the business plan.
Be sure to walk around the room providing assistance as needed.

@

Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 71


1. Do: Have the participants gather around in a circle

2 Ask: What are some skills of an entrepreneur? (Probe for answers such as creativity,

10m opportunistic, understanding his/her community’s needs).

3. Explain: Explain that an entrepreneur requires certain skills to deliver a successful business
plan. They should know about the market where the product will be sold, or what services
the community needs. They must know the people/organisations that may be interested in
buying the product.

iv) Learn
CREATING OUR BUSINESS PLANS

1. Have participants get into their enterprise groups.

2. Explain: Together with their group members they are going to come up with their enterprise
plans. They should come up with a brief presentation of their enterprise where they explain
their business idea (should be about 5 minutes per group)

3. Say: There are 6 main parts of a business plan:

1) Introduction: an overview of the business - the products/businesses offered

2) Aims: The goal of the business

3) People: Information about people running the business

4) Marketing: show how your business is unique and what kind of people will be your
customers

5) Finance: what financial outcome you think your business will have

6) Production: what is needed (skills, materials) to make your product

4. Do: Give them 10-15 minutes to come up with their business presentation. Walk around the
room and remind them of the 6 parts of the business plan as needed.

5. Allow each group to come up and present their business ideas.

@ Reflect

SUMMARIZING
rx) 1. Explain: Now that they've learned about enterprise, identifying gaps in the market, the parts
of a business plan, as well as how to spend and save responsibly, they have gained the tools
and knowledge to start their own enterprise. They now know how to use digital banking to
secure their savings.
2. Thank all participants for their active participation and encourage them to use their new skills
and knowledge and start their own enterprise.

o Start
GROUP DISCUSSION

40m

72 - Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women


Financial Literacy Training for Extreme Poor and Vulnerable Women - 73

UNDP Bangladesh
IDB Bhaban, Sher-e-Bangla Bagar
Agargaon, Dhaka, Bangladesh

For more information: www.undp.org.bd


