5০০06 718৭5 30551


85

Foreign Investment in Bangladesh:
The Legal Framework

é& Legal Counsel

BARRISTERS * ADVOCATES © LEGAL CONSULTANTS

First published in Bangladesh
by Legal Counsel

© Legal Counsel, 2025

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
or transmitted in any from or by any means, electronic or mechanical,
including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and
retrieval system, without permission in writing from Legal Counsel, Dhaka,
Bangladesh. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside the scope of the
above should be sent to Legal Counsel, at the address below.

You must not circulate this book in any other binding or cover
and you must impose the same condition on any acquirer.
The information in this Booklet and the images used for
illustrating the same are provided for the purpose
of information and education only.

Design and Production
Kawsar Ahame
Adroit Corporation

Printed and bounded in Bangladesh

First Edition
First print : 7 April 2025
Second print : 29 April 2025

‘This is a pro-bono initiative of Legal Counsel and
this Booklet is available for collection, free of charge.

LEGAL COUNSEL
Dhaka Office
Momtaz Vision, Suite B-4 (Level-2), House 11/A, Road: 99
Gulshan-2, Dhaka-1212, Bangladesh

Chattogram Office
World Trade Centre, (Suite 4, Level 3), 102-103
Agrabad Commercial Area, Chattogram-4100, Bangladesh

info@legalcounselbd.com

www.legalcounselbd.com

“Foreign direct investment is a key driver
of economic development, bringing not
only capital but also technology, skills,

and access to global markets.”

— Kofi Annan (1938-2018)

০৯৯৪৪

40

Note from the Head of the Chambers
০

Bangladesh, on the brink of graduating from a Least Developed Country to a
Developing Country, is actively positioning itself as an attractive destination
for foreign investment. Emphasizing “Trade, not aid? the country seeks
increased global business engagement.

This booklet provides foreign investors with a comprehensive overview of
Bangladesh’s legal framework for trade, commerce, and investment. It
outlines key procedures for establishing and managing businesses, covering
labor laws, taxation, foreign exchange regulations, intellectual property
rights, real estate laws, contract enforcement, and data privacy. It also explores
business structures such as locally incorporated companies, branch offices,
and liaison offices, along with dispute resolution mechanisms.

Legal Counsel, having supported numerous businesses in establishment and
operations, recognized the need for a structured guide. This booklet, the third
in our pro-bono ‘Quest’ series, serves as a practical resource for those entering
the Bangladeshi market or already operating here.

I extend my sincere gratitude to our associates for their dedication in bringing
this publication to life. We look forward to your valuable feedback to enhance
this initiative further.

Omar H. Khan

Barrister-at-Law, The Hor’ble Society of Lincoln's Inn, UK
Advocate, Supreme Court of Bangladesh

Head of Chambers, Legal Counsel

Email - omar@legalcounselbd.com

07 April 2025 | Dhaka, Bangladesh

| QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

Facts

Data/Statistics

Official name and capital

People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka

Location and area

Riverine country located in the
Indian subcontinent.
148,460 sq km

Religion (2022) 91.04% Islam
7.95% Hinduism
0.61% Buddhism
0.30% Christianity
0.12% Others
Official Language Bengali
Time GMT +6
GDP Per Capita (2025) (PPP)2025 estimate

Total $1.801 trillion (240)
Per capita $10,367(126")
(Nominal)2025 estimate

Total $481.86 billion (340)
Per capita $2,773(1 39)

Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)

USD$ 1.65 billion (2023)
USD$ 2.90 billion (2022)

USD$2.89 billion (2021)
USD82.56 billion (2020)
Foreign direct investment, net inflows (% of GDP) 0.3
Total Import (2021) USD $ 71.02 B
Total Export (2024) USD $ 50.00 B

Literacy Rate % (2020)

75.272.9 (women) 77.4 (men)

Independence/ Foundation Day

26" March (Independence Day)

Population (2023)

171,466,990

Life expectancy at Birth (2020)

74.5 (women) 71.2 (men) years

Access to electricity % (2022) 99.4
Individuals using the Internet % (2023) 45
Poverty Rate % (2021) 11.9
Unemployment rate % (2021) 5.2
Inflation Rate (January, 2025) 9.32

Exchange Rate against US Dollar
(As of end -March 2025)

USD$ 1 = Bangladeshi
Taka (BDT) 122 (approx)

Sources: Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, BIDA, Wikipedia, World Bank
and other reliable open sources.

_ ৫৯

CONTENTS

[ব17২01000708......................,০,০,০,০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০5০555555555555555 7
INVESTMENT CLIMATE (KEY POINTS)......0.cccccccscseseeeseseseseseevees 8
THE FOREIGN PRIVATE INVESTMENT (PROMOTION AND
PROTECTION) ACT, 1980......................০,০,০,০,০,০,০,০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০৭ ll
SETTING UP BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT IN BANGLADESH........... B

THE ONE STOP SERVICEACT, 2018 & INVESTMENT AUTHORITIES... 29

FOREIGN EXCHANGE 800].এ0101৩.,....,০০০,০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০২০০,০০, 24
TAXATION [৯9$,,5,55555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555 27
CONTRACT LAW & ENFORCEMENT OF ০0075,.....,,০,০,০,০,০, 32
REAL ESTATE & PROPERTY LAW. .0....cscscsseesessesesesueseessesueeeeesees 38
LABOUR & 80,0খ[বা৬5.,555555555555555555555555555555555555555555 40
PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL 2২0৮৮],......5,5,5555555555555555555 48
DATA PROTECTION & PRIVACY ,,555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555 51
IMPORTS, EXPORTS & LETTER OF CREDIT. .0...0.0.0.0.ccccccseeeseseeeees 53
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE ২8$01-0৭0ট.......০১০,০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০, 57
COURT SYSTEM IN BANGLADESH (0৬1)... 60
SOME IMPORTANT LEGISLATIONS & AUTHORITIES ............0000005 62


_ ৫৯.

INTRODUCTION

The objective of this Booklet is to enlighten the potential and existing foreign
investors about the basic legal regime of Bangladesh in relation to FDI so that
the information may facilitate their investment decisions. The Booklet only
focuses on the prevailing legal structure relevant to FDI and related matters as
of the date of publication. Other factors relevant for FDI decision-making,
such as, market analysis, sectoral analysis, infrastructure and transportation,
political and economic climate, demography etc. are not incorporated within
the scope of this Booklet.


—+¢e—_

INVESTMENT CLIMATE
(KEY POINTS)


Bangladesh maintains an open and welcoming policy in terms of private
investors investing into diverse sectors without any limitation or restriction at
large. Private investment is possible in almost every sector, save as only 4
(four) ‘reserved sectors, reserved for government. As per the National Indus-
trial Policy 2022, the said reserved sectors in Bangladesh are mentioned
below:

1. Arms and ammunition and other military equipment and
machineries

Nuclear power

Security printing and minting

Forestation and Mechanized Extraction within the boundary of
reserved forest

2.
3.
4

Besides, there are some sectors, which are ‘controlled’ It is possible to invest
into the controlled sector by any private enterprise. However, in order to
invest into such controlled sectors, NOC (No Objection Certificate) from the
relevant government ministry needs to be obtained.

As per the National Industrial Policy 2022, the Controlled Sectors are
mentioned below for your reference:

Fishing in the deep sea

Bank/financial institution in the private sector

Insurance Company in the private sector

Generation, supply and distribution of power in the private sector

Exploration, extraction and supply of Natural gas/oil

Exploration, extraction and supply of coal

Exploration, extraction and supply of other mineral resources

Large-scale infrastructural project (e.g. flyover, elevated expressway,

monorail, economic zone, inland container depot/container freight

station)

Crude oil refinery (used as fuel)/ used lube oil for recycling/refining

10. Medium and large industry using natural gas/condescend and other
minerals as raw material

11. Telecommunication Service (mobile/cellular and land phone)

12. Satellite channel

13. Cargo/passenger aviator

14. Sea bound ship transport

15. Sea-port/deep sea-port

16. VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) & IP (Internet Protocol)
Telephone

17. Industries using heavy minerals accumulated from sea beach

18. Industries manufacturing any kind of explosive goods, including
explosives

19, Industries producing acid

০০ ১২০৯ ৩৭ ৮৯ WN

৩

Investment Climate (Key Points)

9

10

20. Chemical fertilizer manufacturing industry

21. All types of industrial sludge and fertilizer manufactured from sludge
and any related product manufacturing/producing industry

22. Stone crusher industry

Advantages of investing in Bangladesh

® Invested capital, profit and dividends may be fully repatriated

© Foreign technicians in certain industries are exempted from income tax
for up to 03 (three) years

e Capital gains from the transfer of shares of public limited companies
are tax exempted

© Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements (DTAAs) signed with 36

(thirty-six) countries

Tax incentives including tax holidays to certain industrial sectors and

certain exemptions for Special Economic Zones (SEZ)

Member of organizations such as WAIPA, WIPO and WTO

Availability of bonded warehousing facility

Skilled low-cost labour force and professionals

Strategic location, regional connectivity and worldwide access

Movement of capital to emerging markets like the ones represented by

countries of south Asia is likely to be profitable with no added risks

Strong local market and growing middleclass consumer base

Low cost of energy

Competitive incentives

Bangladesh is one of the top exporters of readymade garments to the

US and Europe.

Bangladesh has an open market based economy.

© Growing infrastructure

e Bilateral Investment Treaties

ও ও ও ও ও ও ও ও ও ও

Bilateral Investment Treaties or BITs offer a set of guarantees to investors of
either contracting parties, including fair and equitable treatment, protection
from expropriation, free transfer of means and full protection and security. So
far, Bangladesh has signed BITs with 33 countries including United Kingdom,
Austria, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU),
Cambodia, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland,
Republic of Korea (South Korea), Romania, Singapore, Switzerland, Thailand,
The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK or North Korea), Turkey,
United Arab Emirates, United States of America, Vietnam,

Bangladesh has ratified the BITs with most of the countries apart from Belarus,
Cambodia, Denmark, Korea (Republic of Korea/South Korea), Kuwait,
Singapore, The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK or North
Korea), Turkey,

| QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

_85

THE FOREIGN PRIVATE
INVESTMENT (PROMOTION
AND PROTECTION) ACT, 1980


This Act was enacted with a view to safeguard the interests of foreign
investors, provide statutory protection to the foreign investment and to
facilitate foreign investment in Bangladesh.

Some key features are as follows:

o ‘The Act guarantees non-discriminatory treatment between foreign and
local investments.

ও. Empowers the Government to approve industrial undertakings with
foreign capital.

© It states that fair and equitable treatment is to be accorded by the
Government to foreign private investment, which shall enjoy full
protection and security in Bangladesh.

e ‘The Act states that the terms of any sanction, permission or license
granted by Government to an industrial undertaking having foreign
private investment shall not be unilaterally changed.

© Foreign private investments are to be accorded as favourable treatment
as is accorded to similar private investments by the citizens of
Bangladesh.

e Ensures legal protection to foreign investment in Bangladesh against
nationalisation and expropriation.

© Guarantees repatriation of proceeds from sales of shares and profit and
proceeds from liquidation.

12 | The Foreign Private Investment (Promotion And Protection) Act, 1980

১

SETTING UP BUSINESS
ESTABLISHMENT IN
BANGLADESH


14

A foreign investor can establish places of business in Bangladesh in several
ways. Based on the nature and purpose, the appropriate type needs to be
determined.

A locally registered Branch Office Liaison Office
company or subsidiary

LOCALLY INCORPORATED COMPANY

A locally incorporated company limited by shares is the most flexible vehicle
for foreign investors aiming to generate profit in Bangladesh with a relatively
long-term business plan.

Key Features:

eo No minimum paid-up capital requirement, in general

© Fora private limited company, the maximum number of shareholder is
50 (fifty) and minimum number is 2 (two)

© Fora public limited company the minimum number of shareholder is 7
(seven)

o Shareholders can be human beings, company/entity and/or a combina-
tion of the same

© For most of the sectors, it can be 100% foreign-owned without the need
to have any local shareholder, 1.6. the shareholders can be all foreign
(from same country or different countries) or a combination of foreign
and Bangladeshi

eo Need to have at least 2 (two) directors

oe Acompany is considered as a legal entity on its own

© Foreign investors may also establish a joint venture company with
either a local or other foreign investors

| Setting Up Business Establishment In Bangladesh

Incorporation Procedure of a Locally Incorporated Company:

Apply for a name clearance.

Have draft Memorandum and Articles of Association (MoA & AoA’)
and other required documents prepared.

Open an interim bank account with any Authorized Dealer (AD)
bank in Bangladesh.

‘The foreign shareholders will then remit the amounts equivalent to their
respective equity/share subscription amounts to the interim bank account
in Bangladesh from their respective bank accounts from abroad.

The bank in Bangladesh will then issue encashment certificates.

Submit the MoA & AoA along with the other required documents and
prescribed forms to the RJSC through its website and then file hardcopies.

Payment of registration fees shall have to be made through a
designated bank.

Upon verification of information and documents, RJSC
will issue a Certificate of Incorporation along with a digitally certified
copy of the MoA and AoA and Form XII (containing the Particulars
of Directors) and the company can be said to be incorporated.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework | 15

16

After incorporation, the company shall have to obtain Tax Identification
Number (TIN), VAT registration, Trade License from the regulatory authori-
ty, project registration with Bangladesh Investment Development Authority
(‘BIDA), if applicable and any other sector-based license/permits (if applica-
ble).

INVESTMENT IN EXISTING COMPANIES

A foreign investor may invest in an existing company in Bangladesh by way of
buying shares in the same, whether from an existing shareholder or through
newly allotted shares in the company. In order to effectuate the investment in
this manner, a share transfer or a share allotment filing with the RJSC needs to
be carried out with relevant documents, and in accordance with the memo-
randum and articles of association of the company and the applicable laws.
Similarly, foreign investors may also acquire an existing company in Bangla-
desh. An acquisition generally occurs when a larger company acquires a
smaller company, thereby absorbing the business of the smaller company or to
give effect to a global M&A deal. An acquisition entails a procedure similar to
a share transfer.

BRANCH OFFICE

A foreign investor may establish its place of business in Bangladesh in the
form of a branch office. A branch office, as the name suggests, is essentially a
branch office of a company incorporated outside of Bangladesh. Branch
offices, unlike locally incorporated companies, are not separate legal entities.
The establishment of a branch office is regulated by BIDA under its specific
regulatory scheme. The branch office activities are restricted to those allowed
under the BIDA terms and conditions, these are usually service based and
trading activities. However, upon obtaining a waiver from BIDA by providing
proper justification, branch offices may earn profit locally.

The foreign company has to make an application to BIDA seeking permission
to open a branch office in Bangladesh, specifying the activities it shall engage
into and also the timeline, after which the permission needs to be renewed. If
approved, BIDA shall issue a permission letter that shall include the terms and
conditions that the branch office must comply with on a continuing basis. The
foreign investor will have to remit a minimum sum of USD$ 50,000.00 to the
branch office’s bank account to meet initial expenditures of the branch office,
within two to three months from the date of the permission. Usually the bank
account is primarily only allowed to receive funds from the head office for the
purposes of operational, functional and establishment costs, including the
salaries of the employees, rents etc. Outward remittances are usually not

| Setting Up Business Establishment In Bangladesh

allowed. However, provided the branch office is permitted by BIDA to gener-
ate revenue, they may remit post-tax profit outside of Bangladesh. The branch
office is usually a suitable option if the investors are looking for project-based
establishment.

LIAISON OR REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE

A liaison office in Bangladesh may only engage in non-revenue generating
activities such as promotional activities and maintaining relationship/liaison
with clients. They also act as a communication channel between the foreign
company and the Bangladesh market. Similar to a branch office, in order to set
up a liaison office a foreign investor is required to obtain prior approval from
BIDA. In addition, a foreign investor will have to remit a minimum sum of
USD 50,000.00 to the liaison office's bank account with an Authorised Dealer
(‘AD’) bank, within two months from the date of the permission, to meet
initial expenditures of the liaison office. Outward remittances are not permit-
ted through a liaison office’s bank account. All expenditures of the liaison
office must be paid through inwards remittances by the head office. Liaison
offices, unlike incorporated companies, are not separate legal entities.
Procedure of establishing a Branch or Liaison Office:

An application has to be submitted by the foreign company with supporting
documents such as particulars of proposed activities, Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the foreign company, latest audit report of the
parent company etc. The documents are required to be attested by the respec-
tive Bangladesh Embassy in the country of origin of the foreign company.
BIDA may request for further documents or information as part of the
application process. Upon satisfaction of requirements and verification, BIDA
will issue an approval letter. The approval is usually valid for 3 (three) years
and is perpetually renewable for 2 years on each occasion.

After the permission letter is provided, the branch/liaison office needs to
submit the same to Registrar of Joint Stock Companies and Firms (RJSC) and
subsequently receive a certified copy of filing from RJSC. The branch/liaison
office needs to obtain Tax Identification Number (TIN) and other licenses as
may be required. It is important to note that, unlike a limited liability compa-
ny or branch office, a trade license is not required for a liaison office.

EXIT OPTIONS

Closing a Branch/Liaison Office

In order to close the branch/liaison office, the board of directors of the parent
company of the branch/liaison office needs to approve the same in a board
meeting.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework |

17

18

Following this approval, a public notice must be issued in a daily newspaper in
Bangladesh, at least three months prior to the intended closure date of the
branch/liaison office. This notice serves to inform the public and relevant
authorities about the closure, ensuring compliance with regulatory require-
ments and providing adequate time for any necessary procedural steps to be
completed before the office is officially closed.

The applicant is then required to apply to BIDA for the closure of the
branch/liaison office through the online portal with the required documents.
All the documents (except the documents which are being attested by the
respective Bangladeshi Embassy), needs to be attested/signed by the Country
Manager or any other authorized representative of the branch office.

Upon verification of the required documents, BIDA shall issue a certified copy
confirming the closure of the branch/liaison Office.

Winding up of a Company

‘The process of winding up is covered under Companies Act 1994 and can be
generally divided in two categories as mentioned below:

1. Winding up by the Court
2. Voluntary winding up

1. Winding up by Court:

In this category of winding up the process of winding up is initiated when the
Company itself or creditors or RJSC, files the petition to court for winding up
and subsequently official gazette is published in the newspaper by the order of
the court. The Court appoints receiver and can also appoint liquidator for the
purpose of conducting the winding up process.

2. Voluntary winding up:

In the category the process is initiated usually by the members of the Compa-
ny through a special or extraordinary general meeting and the liquidator is
appointed to conduct the process of the liquidation. It is important to note that
at any stage of the voluntary liquidation the Court may make an order, based
on the petition filed by any member of the Company or creditors of the
Company, that the voluntary winding up shall continue subject to the supervi-
sion of the Court.

| Setting Up Business Establishment In Bangladesh

Sale of shares by the foreign Investor

‘The first step of share transfer/sale for both foreign and local shareholders is
to offer the same to the existing shareholders of the company, if any and to
check if there is any restriction on the shareholding ratio of the Foreign and
Local shareholder which is to be maintained as per any existing the laws. For
eg. in the freight forwarding industry a company needs to have at least 60%
local shareholders. Thereby, while making any share transfer/sale, the compa-
ny and the foreign shareholder have to check that whether any such restric-
tion applies to their company and if yes, then the proposed transaction shall
not violate the same.

Foreign shareholders usually sign a share transfer/sale agreement with the
buyer. In addition, a board resolution and Form 117 must be executed. If
shares are sold to non-existing shareholders, a No Objection Certificate from
existing shareholders is required.

Furthermore, since it is not convenient for foreign shareholders to travel to
Bangladesh for signing the share transfer documents in front of the RJSC,
which is a requirement for local shareholder for transferring/sale shares, the
foreign shareholders can attest all the related documents from the respective
Bangladesh Embassy and courier the same to Bangladesh which then needs to
be re-verified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before submitting the same to
the RJSC for their approval.

‘The share transfer/sale transaction may also require Form [X and Form XII to
be submitted to RJSC if the specific share transfer/sale brings any change in
the existing board of directors.

Once the share transfer/sale is completed and a certified document is
obtained from the RJSC, RJSC needs to ensure that the said transfer/sale
which are mentioned in share register are kept at their records.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework |

19

_ ৫৯.

THE ONE STOP SERVICE
ACT, 2018

&
INVESTMENT AUTHORITIES


The One Stop Service Act, 2018

There are four recognized bodies namely, Bangladesh Investment Develop-
ment Authority (BIDA); Bangladesh Economic Zone Authority (BEZA);
Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority (BEPZA) and Bangladesh
Hi-Tech Park Authority, which are considered as the Central One Stop Service
(OSS) centers. These authorities are empowered by the Act to grant registra-
tion, issue clearance, permits and other documents within their respective
jurisdiction and the One Stop Service (OSS) centers under these bodies help
to avoid bureaucracy and save time. The Operation of the OSS is expected to
commence soon.

INTRODUCTION TO INVESTMENT RELATED AUTHORITIES
Bangladesh Investment Development Authority (BIDA)

BIDA (formerly known as Board of Investment-BOI) is the apex investment
promotion agency (IPA) of Bangladesh under the Chief Adviser's Office
(formerly known as the Prime Minister’s Office). BIDA promotes and
facilitates private investment. BIDA also provides regulatory services for
companies outside the EPZ/SEZ etc., including approval of branch/liaison
office, project registration by companies, issuing recommendation letter for
work permit and issuing work permit for expats etc.

Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority (BEPZA)

BEPZA is the official government agency responsible for promoting, attract-
ing, and facilitating foreign investment in the Export Processing Zones
(EPZs). Additionally, as the competent authority, BEPZA oversees and
inspects compliance with regulations related to social and environmental
concerns, workplace safety and security, and ensures the maintenance of
harmonious labour-management and industrial relations within the EPZs.

Incentives

Tax holiday;
Duty free import of construction materials;
Duty free import of machineries, office equipment & spare parts etc.;
Duty free import and export of raw materials and finished goods;
Relief from double taxation;

Exemption from dividend tax;

GSP facilities available;

Accelerated depreciation on machinery or plant allowed;

Remittance of royalty, technical and consultancy fees allowed;

ও ও ও ও ও ও ও co ও

The One Stop Service Act, 2018 & Investment Authorities |

21

22

Facilities

ও ও ও ও ও ও ও ও ও

Work permits issued by BEPZA

Secured and protected bonded area

Off-shore banking available

Import on Documentary Acceptance (DA) basic allowed
Back to Back L/C

Import and Export on CM basis allowed

Import from DTA (Domestic Tariff Area)

10% sale to DTA (Domestic Tariff Area)

Customs clearance at factory site

Bangladesh Economic Zone Authority (BEZA)

BEZA is the central authority for economic zones empowered under Bangla-
desh Economic Zones Act, 2010. These economic zones offer different
business and trade incentives than the rest of the country. A non-exhaustive
list of incentives is provided as follows.

Incentives for developers:

ও ও ও ও ও ও

Income Tax exemption for 12 years

VAT exemption on electricity

VAT exemption on local purchase excluding petroleum products
Exemption from custom/excise duties

Exemption of stamp duty and registration fees for land registration
Exemption of stamp duty for registration off loan/credit document

Exemption from dividend tax Incentives for unit investors:

ও ও ও ও ও

ও ও

Income Tax exemption for 10 years

Duty free import of raw materials etc

Economic Zone declared as custom bonded area

Exemption from dividend tax

100% backward linkage of raw-materials and accessories to sell for EOI
in DTA

20% sale of finished product to DTA

Sub-contracting with DTA allowed

50% exemption of stamp duty and registration fees for registration of
leaseholder land/factory space

Exemption of VAT on all utility services

Duty exemption on export

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

Other Incentives:

ও ও ও ও ও ও ও ও ও

ও

Exemption of CD for import of vehicles

Exemption of double taxation subject to the existence of double
taxation agreement

Exemption of salary income from IT for expatriates

Foreign loan is allowed in compliance with existing laws

FC Account for non-residents

FC Account for both local and joint venture industry

Foreign investors to be free to enter into JV

Tax exemption on royalties, technical fees etc.

Tax exemption on capital gains from transfer of shares

Issuance of work permit to foreigners is allowed up to 5% of total
officers/employees of an industrial unit

Re-investment of remittable dividend to be treated as new foreign
investment

Bangladesh Hi-Tech Park Authority (BHTPA)

BHTPA is the authority that manages and develops technology business parks
and in Bangladesh. Investing in hi-tech parks offers several incentives such as
follows.

গ
গু

Tax holidays and reduced corporate tax rates;

Duty-free import of machinery, equipment, and raw materials;
Exemption from VAT (Value Added Tax) on domestic sales and
services;

Access to subsidized utilities such as electricity, water and gas; and
Simplified customs procedures and export facilitation.

The One Stop Service Act, 2018 & Investment Authorities |

23

5

FOREIGN EXCHANGE
REGULATIONS


Foreign Exchange transactions are highly regulated in Bangladesh by the
central bank, namely, the Bangladesh Bank (‘BB’). The key legislations in this
regard are Foreign Exchange Regulation Act 1947, (027২4), and the regula-
tions promulgated and circulars issued by BB from time to time.

Inward Remittances: There are generally no restrictions on inward remittanc-
es (Chapter 5, Section II, Guidelines for Foreign Exchange Transactions 2018
‘GFET’). Foreign investors are free to invest and make remittances to Bangla-
desh through AD banks. Permission of BB is not required if the foreign
investors use their own funds for equity investment. However, if such inward
remittance is made using foreign loans, prior approval of BIDA shall have to
be obtained. Prior approval is not required to be obtained for outward
remittances of repayment of interest and principal installments, as per the
approval, against such foreign loans. The application for foreign loan has to be
submitted to BIDA in the prescribed form with supporting documents such as
loan agreement, bank document, entity documents etc. to support credit
worthiness.

Outward Remittances: Foreign owned companies may repatriate dividends
to their foreign shareholders through their AD banks. No prior approval of BB
is to be obtained by the foreign investor to repatriate dividends. However, ADs
are subject to a number of guidelines by the BB while making outward
remittances. Under Chapter 5, Section I, of GFET, 2018 Vol 1, ADs must
exercise utmost caution to ensure that foreign currencies remitted or released
by them are used only for the purposes for which they are released; they
should also maintain proper records for submission of returns to BB as also for
the latter's inspection from time to time. ADs are also required to ensure that
the remittance is being made in BDT. Then the value in BDT is converted into
the equivalent foreign currency using the conversion rate published by the
Bangladesh Bank (‘BB’) on the date of remittance. While making an outward
remittance of dividends, companies are required to submit relevant
documents to the bank such as Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss
Account of the company for the year to which dividend relates, final income
tax assessment order etc. While the timeline may vary from bank to bank, a
remittance process through an AD usually takes about 2-3 (two-three)
working days if all documents are duly provided.

Shareholders’ Loan: As per FE Circular No. 32 dated August 22, 2019, foreign
owned/controlled industrial enterprises engaged in manufacturing activities
may avail and pay interest on short term loans extended by parent compa-
nies/shareholders abroad in their home currency subject to observance of the
following instructions:

Foreign Exchange Regulations | 25

26

(a) Interest on Taka proceeds of short term loan shall be payable in Taka at
prevailing 3-month interest rate for Taka term deposit applicable by AD on
the date of encashment of loan received from parent companies/shareholders.

(b) Repayment of principal and accrued interest on maturity shall be repatri-
able after conversion of payable Taka into currency of sourced country at
prevailing exchange rate.

(c) Repayment as mentioned in para b above is subject to deduction of
applicable taxes/duties and payment thereof.

Short term interest bearing loan facility from parent companies/shareholders
abroad under the above authorization shall be admissible for maximum 3
(three) years from the date of inception of manufacturing activities by the
borrowing industrial enterprises. The short term loan so availed may be
renewed/extended for further periods within the applicable period of 3 years.
As per the Foreign Exchange Circular No.4 dated January 19, 2021 of Bangla-
desh Bank, short-term borrowing can be accessible by foreign owned compa-
nies engaged in service activities (except trading businesses). Such short-term
borrowings can be admissible in convertible foreign currencies maximum for
6 (six) years from the date of inception of service activities, with options to
renew/extend the tenure within these 6 (six) years. Borrowing companies may
pay interest maximum at the rate of 3.0% per annum. Additionally, borrowing
companies have to report to Bangladesh Bank about obtaining and repaying
the loan.

| QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

—+¢e—_

TAXATION LAWS


28

The National Board of Revenue (NBR) under the Ministry of Finance is the
regulatory authority for all tax matters (Income Tax, VAT and Customs) in

Bangladesh.

Income Tax

The Income Tax Act, 2023 is the governing law for income tax related matters
in Bangladesh. In accordance with the said Act, every company in Bangladesh
(including branch and liaison offices) is required to submit an annual income
tax return and return of tax deducted or collected at source using prescribed

formats half yearly to the tax authorities.

The applicable income tax rates for companies are as follows:

Type Rate
Publicly traded companies if more than 10% of paid up capital is 120%
issued through IPO

Publicly traded companies if 10% or less of paid up capital is 22.5%
issued through IPO

Non-listed companies 25%
Banks, insurance and financial institutions (except merchant banks)| 40%
if not publicly listed

Banks, insurance and financial institutions (except merchant banks)| 37.5%
if publicly listed

Merchant banks 37.5%
Cigarette, bidi, jorda, gul and all tobacco manufacturers 45%
Publicly traded mobile phone operating companies (At least 10% of | 40%
paid-up capital transferred through stock exchange of which
maximum 5% is transferred via pre-initial public offering)

Private mobile phone operating companies 45%
Trust, fund, association of persons and other taxable entity 25%
Co-operative society registered under Co-operative Societies Act, 2001] 20%
Private university, medical/dental/engineering college and colleges | 15%
solely dedicated to providing education on ICT

Export income except for individual, firm and HUF 12%
Export income except for individual, firm and HUF with LEED 10%
Certificate

Dividend Income 20%

Taxation Laws


‘The tax rates (and tax governance mechanism) generally changes every year
during the end of June through the national budget called the Finance Act.
All companies incorporated in Bangladesh are required to obtain an e-TIN
from NBR. Companies are required to file their tax returns using prescribed
formats annually.

Other filings:

The following entities are required to submit a return of tax deducted or
collected at source using prescribed formats half yearly to the tax authorities:

Company

Co-operative society

Non-government organization registered with NGO Affairs Bureau
Micro Credit Organization having license with Micro Credit Regulatory
Authority

University, private hospital, a clinic, a diagnostic center

English medium schools providing education following international
curriculum, artificial juridical person, local authority

© firm or an association of persons

© Branch/liaison office

ও ও ও ও

ও ও

Avoidance of Double Taxation

Bangladesh has signed Avoidance of Double Taxation Treaty (DTT) with 36
countries as shown below. Hence double tax impact can be avoided at the time
of repatriation of fees and other payments to non-resident subject to taking
approval from NBR.

BB+ Be =k 3

Bahrain Belarus Belgium Canada China Czech Denmark France
সর মা 62
Germany India Indonesia _ Italy Japan Kuwait Malaysia

Mauritius Myanmar TheNetherlands. “Norway Oman Pakistan Philippines Poland
—_

4

8৬

RepublicofXoree Romania Singapore Srilanka ৮০৫৩] Switzerland Thailand Turkey

৮ হাহ ভর

USA Vietnam

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework | 29

30

Value Added Tax (VAT)

VAT is a key component of Bangladesh’s tax system, and understanding its
structure is crucial for investors looking to do business in the country.
Introduced in 1991, VAT is a consumption tax levied on goods and services at
different stages of production and distribution. The standard VAT rate in
Bangladesh is 15%, though certain goods and services, especially essential
items, are be subject to different reduced rates or exemptions. Since VAT is
applied at each step of the supply chain, companies must maintain proper
documentation to ensure compliance with tax laws. This includes issuing VAT
invoices, registering for VAT, and filing periodic returns. Non-compliance can
result in penalties, which can impact profitability. The government has made
strides in reforming the VAT system, including the introduction of the new
VAT and Supplementary Duty Act in 2012. These reforms aim to streamline
VAT procedures and encourage more transparent tax practices, which could
benefit investors by reducing red tape. A VAT registration is done in the form
of registering a BIN (Business Identification Number).

| Taxation Laws

Customs

Understanding customs laws is essential for any businessman involved in
import or export activities. Bangladesh’s customs law is governed by the
Customs Act of 1969, along with various amendments and regulations, which
aim to regulate the import and export of goods, safeguard the country’s
revenue, and prevent illegal trade. The Bangladesh Customs Department,
under the National Board of Revenue (NBR), is responsible for implementing
these laws and ensuring that all goods entering or leaving the country comply
with applicable tariffs, duties, and documentation requirements. Bangladesh
applies a system of customs duties based on the value of goods (ad valorem),
with rates varying depending on the type of product. It is essential for business
owners to maintain accurate documentation, understand the specific regula-
tions applicable to their goods, and work closely with clearing agents who are
familiar with the local customs procedures. In recent years, Bangladesh has
taken steps to improve customs efficiency, such as implementing the Automat-
ed Customs Management System (ACMS) to streamline the clearance process.
The government has also introduced various trade facilitation measures and
initiatives aimed at reducing the cost and time of doing business, which is
beneficial for both local and foreign investors.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework | 31

-

CONTRACT LAW &
ENFORCEMENT OF CONTRACTS |


The operation of any establishment requires it to deal with and pe!

rform under

a various type of contracts, be it a procurement of goods/ services agreement,
employment agreement, lease agreement, dealer/distributor agreement or any
other types of agreement. Therefore, knowing the basic, albeit important

matters, for a contract is very important to avoid future hassles, pi
disputes and for smooth operation of the organization.

roblems and

© In Bangladesh, contracts are generally regulated by the Contract Act,

1872 along with other applicable laws and regulations rel

evant to the

subject matter of the contract in question. The first important factor to

consider regarding a valid contract is to see whether the
stipulated under the contract is legally permissible or not in
It is also imperative to scrutinize whether the operation o

erformance
Bangladesh.
f the subject

matter of the contract requires permission from any authority or wheth-

er it is regulated by any law. On the other hand, it is also
check whether the contracting counter-part has the legal
enter into the contract.

necessary to
capacity to

© There are certain other points that should be taken into consideration.
For instance, the contract shall be executed on non-judicial stamp

papers of appropriate value. The terms of the contracts shoul
with clarity and precision. Particular focus shall be given

id be drafted
in the areas

such as the exclusion clauses, payment terms, income tax and VAT
implications, time of performance, precious scope of performance,

termination clauses, force majeure clauses, dispute resolut:
ing law etc.

ion, govern-

© One question that may dawn in the minds of the contracting parties is
what would the remedies be if the other party does not perform or fails
to perform in accordance with the terms of the contract or if there is
breach of any terms of the contract. In this regard, there are 3 (three)
remedies available to a contracting party not in breach, they are:

a. Specific performance of contracts

In the following circumstances the Court, if satisfied, may enforce

specific performance of contracts:

i. Where the act agreed to be performed forms part of a trust

ii, Where there exists no standard for ascertaining the actual damage

caused by the act agreed to be performed;

Contract Law & Enforcement Of Contracts |

33

34

iii. Where the act agreed to be done is such that monetary compensation
for its failure to perform would not be sufficient; or

iv. When it is probable that monetary compensation cannot be obtained
for the non-performance of the act agreed to be done.

There are instances where specific performance of contract is not available,
which are:

vy Acontract for the non-performance of which monetary compensation
is an adequate relief;

vy Acontract which runs into such minute or numerous details, or which
is so dependent on the parties’ personal qualifications, or otherwise by
its nature, that the Court cannot endorse the specific performance of its
material conditions;

vy A contract the terms of which the Court cannot find with reasonable
certainty;

vy  Acontract made by trustees either in excess of their powers or in breach
of their trust;

vy Acontract which is in its nature revocable;

vy Acontract concluded by or on behalf of a corporation or public compa-
ny founded for special purposes or by the promoters of such a company
which exceeds its powers;

vy Acontract whose performance involves the performance of a continu-
ous duty extending over a period of more than 3 (three) years from its
date; and

vy Acontract of which a material part of the subject- matter, supposed by
both parties to exist, has, before it has been made, ceased to exist.

pb. Compensation

When a contract is violated, the non-defaulting party is entitled to receive
compensation from the party violating the contract for any loss or damage
resulting from such infringement, which inevitably resulted from such
infringement in the ordinary course of events. Further, it is to be noted that
such compensation is not to be given for any remote and indirect loss or
damage sustained by reason of the breach.

Where a penalty has been levied for infringement of the contract, where a sum
is specified in the contract as the amount to be paid in the event of such
infringement, or where the contract includes any other clause by way of penal-
ty, the party complaining of the infringement is entitled to receive the amount
from the contract, whether or not the actual damage or loss has been found to
have been incurred thereby.

| QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

c. 7২990199101) of contracts

Any person interested in a contract in writing may sue for having it rescinded,
and such rescission may be permitted by the Court in the following cases—

i. where the contract is voidable or terminable by the plaintiff;

ii. where the contract is unlawful for reasons not apparent to the plaintiff
and the defendant is more to blame than the plaintiff;

iii. where a decree for specific performance of a contract of sale, or of a
contract to take a lease, has been made, and the purchaser or lessee
makes default in payment of the purchase-money or other sums which
the Court has ordered him to pay.

Moreover, a party to the contract who rightly rescinds a contract is entitled to
compensation for any damage which he has sustained through the non-fulfill-
ment of the contract.

It is important to have dispute resolution clause in the contracts so that the
arties may first attempt to resolve the dispute without resorting to court
roceedings. Formal negotiation may be included along with well- articulated
rovisions for arbitration.

Enforcing a contract:

It is very important that a contract can be enforced efficiently by the innocent
arty against the party in breach. As per the last available data of World Bank
Enforcing Contracts, Bangladesh scored poorly in the global index and also in
comparison to its counterparts. The World Bank’s enforcing contracts indica-
tor measured the time and cost for resolving a commercial dispute through a
local court of first instance, and the quality of judicial processes index, evaluat-
ing whether each economy had adopted a series of good practices that
romote quality and efficiency in the court system. However, measures have
een taken in the recent years to improvise the efficiency in enforcing
contracts in Bangladesh as well as by way of popularizing various methods of
ADR, including commercial mediation and arbitration.

Digital Contract

‘There is no specific definition of ‘Digital Contracts’ or ‘Electronic Contracts’ in
the laws of Bangladesh. Generally, ‘Digital Contract’ or ‘Electronic Contract’
refers to a contract in which the parties reach an agreement electronically
instead of in person. It is created when two or more parties negotiate using
electronic tools, like email, when a person interacts with an electronic agent,
like a computer program, or when two or more electronic agents interact and
are programmed to identify the existence of a contract. As long as the essential
elements of a contract are present, a digitally executed contract is also enforce-
able. Moreover, the recent amendment of the Evidence Act, 1872 in 2022
recognizes digital records as admissible in legal proceedings.

Contract Law & Enforcement Of Contracts |

35

Digital Signature

The use of electronic/

igital signatures gained legal recognition in Bangladesh

through the Information and Communication Technology Act 2006.

Electronic signatures

facilitate the execution of contracts remotely, eliminat-

ing the need for physical presence. This has made contract formation more

efficient, particularly

in e-commerce and online transactions. It is a legal

requirement for an individual or an entity to execute a commercial contract by

means of a certified el

ectronic signature from a certifying authority (CA) in

Bangladesh from which the parties, both local and foreign, shall obtain a

digital certificate.

A digital certificate shall be issued by a CA according to law, standards and
policies set by the Bangladeshi Government. To obtain the digital certificate,

an applicant must app!
documents signed by

ly toa CA for a digital certificate. The evidential value of
E-signature by following the above criteria has strong

evidential value if there is any dispute in relation to the signatures in the
documents.

36 | QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

১

REAL ESTATE & PROPERTY
LAW


38

In Bangladesh, if someone is desirous of purchasing, leasing, or renting a
property, it is of absolute importance that they perform a due diligence of the
property in terms of title and peaceful possession.

Practically, like other developing countries, real estate industry in Bangladesh
is not free from scams and unscrupulous brokers. Due to such issues, it is very
important to conduct professional due diligence of the property prior to
taking lease or purchasing.

The due diligence in terms of title is popularly known as property vetting. It is
a series of steps that one has to take to ensure that a property in question is
safe from any sort of hassle and if anyone purchases/ leases it, s/he would
become the rightful owner/lessee of the said property.

In the process of vetting, there are several steps to be followed:

@ Step 1: Gathering information about the property: One has to find
information about the plot number, khatiyan/survey record number,
current possessor, mutation, ground rent receipt, holding number etc.
These need to be collected to check the legitimacy of the property.

€ Step 2: Validate the authenticity of the Title Deed: One has to verify
the Title Deed(s). If the property in question has been inherited, then
the Partition Deed (Bonton-nama) needs to be verified along with the
Title Deed(s) of the predecessor.

€ Step 3: Establish the chain of ownership: This is where the history of
the last 25 (twenty-five) years of ownership of the property in questions
needs to be established through Bia Deeds, i.e., the Title Deeds of the
previous owners.

@ Step 4: Check the Mutation related documents: This step is to check
whether the existing owner's name is present in the latest Mutation
Khatiyan as per the Title Deed(s). During this process, one has to check
3 (three) mutation documents; 1. the Mutation Proposal Letter, which is
otherwise known as the Namjari Jomavag Prostabpotro, 2. the Duplicate
Carbon Receipt ‘DCR and 3. Mutation Khatiyan.

@ Step 5: Verify the Jareep Khatiyans: Khatiyans need to be verified as
well. Khatiyan is also known as ‘Porcha or ‘Record of Rights. Generally,
there are 4 (four) categories of Jareep Khatiyans: CS Khatiyan, SA Khati-
yan, RS Khatiyan, BS Khatiyan/ City Jareep. These can be obtained from
the local Land Office, Tahsildar Office, DC Office, AC Land Office and
Land Survey Office.

| Real Estate & Property Law

© Step 6: Analyze the Land Tax Receipts: It is of utmost importance that
all land development tax or Khajna records up to the latest Bengali year
in relation to the particular piece of property are analyzed.

@ Step 7: Confirm the NOC and the NEC: Once the above checking is
completed, one has to check for No Objection Certificate (NOC)
provided by banks/ financial institutions (if any) and Non-Encum-
brance Certificate (NEC) of the property issued by the Tahsildar Office
of the concerned area. This is done to ensure that there are no outstand-
ing charges/mortgages against the property.

€ Step 8: Review the building plan and its approval: In recent times, it
has been found that numerous buildings have been constructed in
violation of the plans approved by concerned local authority, for
example, Rajdhani Unnayan Kartripakkha (RAJUK) in Dhaka City.
Some of the buildings, unfortunately, do not have any approved plan at
all. The owners of such buildings are facing legal charges, with some
being asked to demolish their building. Mobile courts have the power to
require demolition of such buildings or part thereof. So, to prevent such
hassles, it is important to review the building plan and check whether
the building actually matches the approved plan. One must also ensure
that the plans have been approved by the concerned local authorities
such as the RAJUK.

Note: The seller/lessor shall be able to provide the purchaser/lessee with all
the documents stated above. In case of sale/purchase, original shall be collect-
ed. In case of lease, the landlord does not generally provide the originals and
depending on the value and importance of the lease, such documents may
also be verified with the land registry office for checking their authenticity.

© Step 9: Physical Verification: The final step in property vetting involves
physically verifying the property in question. One has to check whether
there is an issue with the state, ownership, or physical possession of the
property. Based on the value, investment and nature of usage, local
investigation may also be performed.

Property Ownership by Foreigner:

A foreigner can own movable properties in Bangladesh, unless there is any
specific restriction on any particular property. On the other hand, a foreign
individual cannot own immovable property (real estate) in Bangladesh.
However, if a company is incorporated in Bangladesh (whether as a joint
venture or a fully foreign-owned company) it will be a considered as a local
entity and hence, such company can own both movable and immovable
properties in its name.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework |

39

=X

LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT
LAWS


The Bangladesh Labour Act 2006 (‘BLA’) as well as the Bangladesh Labour
Rules 2015 (‘BLR’) depict almost all matters associated with labour and
workforce, including wage and salary, benefits and allowances, termination
and grievances, work environment and health and safety, maternity, unioniza-
tion, child labour and so on. The Act and Rules apply to most of the organiza-
tions including foreign-owned companies and organizations for their ‘worker’
category of staffs. Some salient features of the Act are discussed in brief below:

@ Establishment License: Every organization needs to take ‘Establish-
ment License’ against each of its establishments from the Ministry of
Labour and Employment and need to do certain periodical filings.

Service Rules: The Act further stipulates that any establishment can
have its own internal service rules. The Service Rules must not have
terms and conditions which are less beneficial than those in the
Act/Rules. While appointing a worker under an establishment, s/he has
to be given a letter of appointment along with a photo identity card. The
Service Rules needs to be approved by the office of the Inspector General
of Labour, Ministry of Labour and Employment.

Working Hours: Generally, the Act provides for 8 (eight) hours of work
in a day with an additional hour of break for rest and meal. No worker
shall be allowed to work for more than 10 (ten) hours a day, 60 (sixty)
hours per week and 56 (fifty-six) hours per week in a year, including
overtime work. The Act also puts a restriction on the worker for double
employment.

Separation: Under the Act, the emp!
performed by either the employer
separated by the employer by way of

oyment termination process can be
or the worker. A worker can be
dismissal, retrenchment, discharge

or by termination simpliciter. In every case in this regard different

procedures have to be followed by 11

e employer. The Act also provides

for a worker's termination of his/her employment by way of resignation.
For termination simpliciter, the employer can terminate an employee at
any time without assigning any reason by providing 120 (one hundred
and twenty) days’ notice or wages in lieu of notice.

Disappearance: If a worker remains absent without notice or consent
for more than 10 (ten) days, s/he can be given notice to resume office
and explain his unauthorized absence in writing within next 10 (ten)
days and if s/he fails to do so, s/he shall be given further 7 (seven) days
to join and explain. If s/he fails yet again s/he shall be deemed to have
resigned from service from the first date of such absence. This is a
unique separation mode, popularly called ‘resignation by conduct’,
added only in 2013, which comes handy to employers.

Labour & Employment Laws |

41

42

Salary: There are no fixed unilateral national/local minimum wages in
Bangladesh rather the same is sector based. As such, one need to see if the
sector they are working has any prescribed minimum wage or not. Unless
there is any minimum wages, the employer can freely determine their
salary amount and salary structure including the salary components.
However, following points are of importance:

At least 50% of the total salary shall be basic salary;

5% of the basic salary shall be minimum annual salary increment;

2 (two) festival bonuses per year, each equal to 1 (one) month's basic
salary

1 (one) month’s basic salary for each completed year of service as
severance pay, except certain exceptions;

Annual sharing of 5% net profit, if applicable;

Provident Fund (not compulsory) to be created by equal monthly contri-
bution by employer and worker;

No separate need for pension fund.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

গু

২০০০ 9 ৮৯১১2

Minimum Wages:

Bangladesh does not have a general minimum wage, rather has indus-
try-specific minimum wages for workers as set by the Bangladesh
Minimum Wages Board. In majority of the sectors, there is no minimum
wage and the employer is at the liberty to determine their own salary
structure and wage based solely on their business case. The industries/-
sectors having minimum wages are as follows:

Aluminum and Enamel
Automobile Workshop

Bakery, Biscuit and Confectionery
Bangladesh Land Port

Battery Manufacturer
Bidi/Tocbacco

Cement Factory

Ceramics

Cinema Hall

. Cold Storage

. Cotton Textiles

. Fishing Trawler Industries

. Garments

. Hotel and Restaurant

. Homeopathy Factory

. Hosiery

. Ionizer Factory, Iron Foundry and

Engineering Workshop

. Jute Press and Bailing

. Leather Goods and Shoe Factory
. Match Industries

. Manufacturing Wooden Products
. Oil Mills and Vegetable

. Pharmaceutical

24.
25.
26.
27.

28.
29.

30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
4].
42.
43.
44,

Petrol Pump

Plastic

Poultry Farm
Private Companies Utilizing
Unskilled and Child Workers
Private Jute Mill
Private Road and
Transportation
Printing Press
Re-Rolling Mills
Rice Mill

Rubber Industries
Salt Crushing

Saw Mills

Security Service
Ship Breaking
Shrimp

Shop and Cosmetics
Tannery

Tailoring factory
Tea Garden

Tea Packaging

Type Foundry

Labour & Employment Laws | 43

44

Leaves: There are certain types of leaves for workers such as, casual
leave, sick leave, festival holidays, annual leave, maternity leave, as well
as miscarriage leave. For instance, a worker is entitled to 10 (ten) days of
casual leave and 14 (fourteen) days of sick leave in a year. Over and
above that, a worker shall be entitled to annual leave provided s/he has
completed 1(one) year of continuous service in the organization at the
rate of 1(one) day for every 18 (eighteen) days of work in the past year.
All of the public holidays as published by the Government must not be
observed, but a minimum of 11 (eleven) days of festival holidays in a
year shall be allowed to workers. In a week, 1 (one) or 1.5 (one and half)
days, depending on the type of establishment, of weekly holidays must
be given to workers.

Maternity Benefits: The BLA and BLR have comprehensible provisions
on maternity leave and benefits for women workers who can benefit
from them provided a woman worker has completed 6 (six) months of
employment with the organization prior to giving notice of her
pregnancy. Such female worker shall have 16 (sixteen) weeks of paid
maternity leave along with the right to receive maternity benefit for the
said period.

Miscarriage Leave: A female worker shall be entitled to 4 (four) weeks
of paid miscarriage leave, if applicable.

Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: The BLA
recognizes and guarantees freedom of association, formation of trade
union and collective bargaining. Both the employer and the worker are
restricted from exercising unfair labour practices under the applicable
laws of Bangladesh.

Adjudication: There are special courts, namely, Labour Court (with
Labour Appellate Tribunal) to deal with any matter under the labour
laws. Before, moving to the labour court, the BLA allows an internal
grievance proceeding so that the employer and employee can try to
settle the matters internally. Moreover, the Inspector General of Depart-
ment and Inspection for Factories and Establishment under the Minis-
try of Labour and Employment has been empowered to do conciliation
in relation to wage related disputes avoiding the need for a litigation.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

€) Laws for management employees: For the management level employees
the BLA does not apply and there is no other employment law to regulate
their terms of employment. As such, the employer is at liberty to
determine their own terms and conditions of employment through the
contract of employment/appointment letter along with their internal
rules. For any violation of the terms of such contract, the parties resort to
regular civil court as opposed to the Labour Court.

© Other laws: For the establishments operating under the economic zones,
there is a similar but separate labour law, namely, the Bangladesh EPZ
Labour Act, 2019.

€ Affiliation with the International Labour Organization: Since 1919 the
International Labour Organization (ILO), the only tripartite U.N. agency,
brings together governments, employers and workers of 187 Member
States with a view to foster labour standards, develop policies and devise
programs for promotion of decent work for all women and men. Bangla-
desh has been an important and active Member State of the ILO since 22
June 1972, i.e. immediately after its independence. Out of 36 Conventions
and 1 Protocol ratified by Bangladesh, of which 30 are in force, 1 Conven-
tion has been denounced; 4 instruments abrogated; 2 have been ratified in
the recent years. Bangladesh has ratified 8 of 10 fundamental Conven-
tions, 2 of 4 Governance Conventions and 26 of 176 technical Conven-
tions. The BLA and other laws related to employment reflect such ILO
Conventions. The relevant laws have also been amended from time to time
in order to make them more consistent with International Labour
Standards (ILS) and to meet the growing need for change and adaptation.

Appointment of expats:

Work permit is a prerequisite for employment of a foreigner/expat in Bangla-
desh. BIDA is generally the relevant authority to issue work permits.

Procedure to obtain Work Permit

Private sector industrial enterprises, outside Export Processing Zones (EPZ),
branch/liaison/representative offices of foreign origin and local commercial
enterprises desiring to employ foreign nationals are required to apply in
advance to BIDA for work permits. For expatriate employees the guidelines
are as follows:

Labour & Employment Laws |

45

46

Nationality: Nationals of the countries recognized by Bangladesh are
considered for employment.

Industrial Establishment: Employments of expatriate personnel are
considered only in industrial establishments and commercial enterprise
duly sanctioned/registered by the appropriate authority.

Local Experts not available: Employment of foreign nationals is normal-
ly considered for the job for which local experts/ technicians are not
available.

Minimum Age: Persons below 18 years of age are not eligible for employ-
ment.

Decision of Board of Directors: A board resolution concerning the new
employment/extension has to be furnished.

Duration: Initially employment of any foreign national is considered for a
term of two years, which may be extended on the basis of the merit of the
case.

Security clearance: Necessary security clearance has to be obtained from
the Ministry of Home Affairs after issuance of work permit.

Type of Visa: For obtaining a new work permit, the expatriate investors or
employees must arrive in Bangladesh with PI or E/E] type visa respective-
ly obtainable from the concerned Bangladesh mission abroad. Recom-
mendation from BIDA/ BEPZA is required for PI and E type visa.

Limit on expatriate employees: Number of the expatriate employees in
an industrial enterprise should not exceed 1:20 (foreign: local) ratio at any
time during regular production and the ratio that commercial offices are
to maintain is 1:5 (foreign: local).

Process flow:

Step 01: Apply for E-Visa recommendation letter from BIDA with all
supporting documents

Step 02: Get the E-Visa from the concerned Bangladesh mission

Step 03: Arrive in Bangladesh with the E-VISA

Step 04: Apply for Work Permit to BIDA

Step 05: Get visa stamping on the passport from the Immigration office

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

Documents requirement:

The following documents must be submitted with the application of work
permit:

v Permission letter of branch/ liaison/ representative office or BIDA
registration certificate for industrial undertakings

vy Memorandum and Articles of Association and Certificate of Incorpora-
tion (in case of industrial projects locally incorporated)

v Board resolution for employment of foreign national(s) mentioning
expatriate’s name, nationality, and passport number,

v Visa recommendation letter issued by BIDA in favor of the expatriate/
investor

v Copies of all academic qualification and professional experience certifi-
cates of the employee

v_ Service contract/ agreement and appointment letter/ transfer order,

v_ Passport of the employee/ expatriate/ investor (copy of the used parts)

vy Statement of the manpower showing the list of local and expatriate
employees with designation, salary break-up, nationality, and date of
first appointment

vy Encashment certificate of inward remittance of minimum USD 50,000
as initial establishment cost for branch/ liaison/ representative office and
locally incorporated/ joint venture and 100% foreign owned companies
(ifany)

v Updated income tax clearance certificate of the organization: and

v Audit report of the company

Labour & Employment Laws | 47

৬৫৬৯

PROTECTION OF
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY


v Intellectual property allows businesses to protect their ideas, brands, etc.
and allows their goods and services to be distinguished from the goods of
their competitors.

v The most common types of intellectual property are trademarks,
copyrights, designs, patents.

v As per the Trademarks Act 2009, trademarks are words, letters, symbols,
numerals, figurative elements, device, brand, heading, label, ticket, name,
signature, combination of colors or any combination thereof.

vy Under the Copyright Act 2023, a copyright is a type of legal right which
allows the creator/owner of a creative work such as literary, artistic,
dramatic works, digital works etc. to protect the same.

৩. Inaccordance with the Patents and Designs Act 2023, designs refer to the
features of shape, configuration, pattern or ornament applied to any article
by any industrial process. Moreover, Patent refers to an exclusive right
granted for an invention.

vy _ Protecting the IPR of a business is imperative in today’s competitive world.
It is also significant to have a robust IP strategy in place.

vy Where the IP is already registered, subsequent actions (i.e. renewals, etc.)

yv should be properly carried out by businesses.

IP valuation is further all-important for businesses to identify their true
vy worth.

Protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) allows the right holder to
y have exclusive use of such intellectual property.

IP may be licensed/assigned by the right holder.

vy IP protection for all such intellectual property rights IPRs are territorial in

vy hature.

Where IPR is registered in Bangladesh, it is protected within Bangladesh

y and any action for infringement may be commenced in the applicable
courts of Bangladesh.

For registered and unregistered IPRs, civil and criminal remedies are

৩. available from the courts for infringement

Labour & Employment Laws | 49

For each type of IP, time taken for registration, period of protection, etc. vary
and protection is granted as follows:

50

Trademark Department
of Patents,
Designs and
Trademarks
(DPDT)

Copyright Bangladesh
Copyright

Office

Patent DPDT

Design DPDT

Under the Act, where
there are no defects in
the application or the
same is compliant with
the conditions and has
not been objected
under any ground, the
time taken for registra-
tion is 150 (one
hundred 200 fifty)
working days from the
date of filing.

No specific time 15
provided, however, it
usually takes 6 (six)
months.

If the application is not
objected under any
ground, the time of
registration is usually
within 24 (twen-
ty-four) months from
the date of filing.

No specific date 15
provided, however, in
practice, it usually
takes 1 (one) - 2 (two)
years.

7 (seven) years,
renewable _ thereaf-
ter.

+ Literary, dramatic,
musical or artistic
work: Lifetime of the
author + 60 (sixty)
years following the
year in which the
author dies.
+Cinematograph
films, sound record-
ings, photographs,
digital works: 60
(sixty) years follow-
ing the year in which
the work এও
published.

16 (sixteen) years,
renewable thereafter.

5 (five) 76915,
renewable _thereaf-
ter.

| QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework


52

Data protection refers to the legal and technical measures taken to safeguard
personal information, whereas privacy pertains to individuals’ rights to
control their personal data. Bangladesh does not have any specific data protec-
tion laws yet. The only available laws in relation to data protection is the
Information and Communication Technology Act 2006 (hereinafter referred
to as the ‘ICT ACT 2006’) and the Cyber Security Act 2023 (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘CSA 2023’) in Bangladesh. The Constitution of Bangladesh
grants fundamental rights to individuals, including one for privacy. Even
though this does not directly relate to data protection, it can still be interpreted
to mean that individual information is somehow safeguarded through these
rights.

One of the key features of The ICT Act 2006 and CSA 2023 is prohibition
against disclosure of personal information belonging to an individual without
the consent of that individual. This provision is critical in ensuring that
individuals’ privacy is safeguarded, particularly in the context of digital
transactions and online interactions. For foreign investors seeking to invest in
Bangladesh, this legal framework provides a strong assurance that their
personal and sensitive information, stored in electronic records within the
country, will be protected from unauthorized access or disclosure. Investors
can thus have confidence that their data will be handled in compliance with
the strict data protection standards set forth in these laws, ensuring that their
business operations are not unduly compromised by data breaches or unlawful
disclosures. This legal protection promotes a secure and transparent environ-
ment for foreign investments, fostering trust and encouraging further partici-
pation in Bangladesh’s growing digital economy.

Additionally, the regulatory framework facilitates legal clarity with respect to
data handling and processing, which aids investors in managing their data
responsibilities and avoiding potential legal liabilities. By instituting strong
safeguards against cyber threats and breaches, the laws further ensure the
stability and continuity of business activities, providing investors with greater
assurance in the security of their digital infrastructure.

| ata Protection & Privacy

6৬

IMPORTS, EXPORTS & LETTER
OF CREDIT


54

Importation and Exportation of goods in Bangladesh are regulated by the
Ministry of Commerce as per the Import and Export (Control) Act, 1950.
Other rules, regulations include the Uniform Customs and Practice for Docu-
mentary Credits (‘UCP’) 600 (for Letter of Credit (LC), Foreign Exchange
Regulation Act, 1947, as amended, Bangladesh Bank Circulars & Guidelines
and the Customs Act 1969.

According to the 1950 Act the importer is required to be registered with the
licensing authority. Various documents are required for opening an LC for
import, such as Import Registration Certificate (IRC), Trade License, valid
membership certificate from local chamber of commerce of related associa-
tion, TIN, VAT certificate, etc. For importation of goods, the importer must
obtain other relevant documents such as the application of letter of credit, pro
forma invoice/purchase order/contract/agreement, Letter of Credit Authori-
zation Form (LCAF) duly sealed & signed, insurance cover note, certificate of
origin etc. Moreover, the importer shall have to be a customer of the bank for
opening the LC.

A Letter of Credit (LC) is a written document presented by the importer’s
bank on their behalf, assuring the exporter that the issuing bank will make the
payment to the exporter for the international trade conducted. Types of LC
include Revocable LC, Irrevocable LC, Standby LC, Confirmed LC, Uncon-
firmed LC, Transferable LC, Back-to-Back LC, Payment at Sight LC, Deferred
Payment LC and Red Clause LC.

| Imports, Exports & Letter of Credit

The contract between parties for the sale of goods is formed.

The buyer applies to his bank (issuing bank) to open an LC
in favor of the seller.

After approving the LC application, Bank issues the LC to the
seller's bank (advising bank).

After receiving the LC, the seller ships the goods to the buyer as per
the terms which are underlying in the contract of sale.

The seller will then obtain all the required documents to present
the advising bank or confirming bank.

Advising bank transfers all the documents to the issuing bank.

‘The issuing bank examines all the documents and pays the seller.

The issuing bank sends all the documents to the buyer and
collects the payment.

Nonetheless, various difficulties are faced by foreign traders/exporters, such as
the terms of LC may not be honored if not in conformity (i.e. if there exists
material discrepancy), payments may be delayed beyond reasonable time, LC
confirmation costs are higher, existence of lack of strict regulations involving
the methods of payment, existence of fraudulent risks or events amounting to
force majeure and leading to frustration of contracts. Where the terms of the
LC are not settled, this amounts to a violation of c34 of Guidelines for Foreign
Exchange Transactions.The said clause states that the Authorized Dealer
Category Banks (AD) shall make payment of import liabilities as per LC/
contracts (both local and foreign) on maturity and failure in settlement of
import liability as per credit/contract terms may result in punitive actions
including revocation of AD license by Bangladesh Bank.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework |

55

56

Moreover, non-payment further leads to the evitable consequence of breach of
contract by the counter party and the aggrieved party may seek damages for
the same.

Bearing the aforesaid difficulties in mind, certain steps may be adopted by a
foreign exporter to mitigate the risks involved. This includes checking credit
rating of banks, checking reputation of the local company in terms of prompt-
ness of making payments on time before entering into any form of legal
relationship, carefully and critically reviewing all the requirements for the LC
before moving forward with a deal, etc. Moreover, stipulation of relevant &
stringent terms regarding consequences for non-payment into the Sales/Pur-
chase Agreement between the parties may also be adopted by an investor to
secure its own position.

| Imports, Exports & Letter of Credit

—~+¢e—_

ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE
RESOLUTION


58

In Bangladesh there are primarily two ways to resolve a dispute without
seeking the assistance of a court, one being mediation and the other being
arbitration. Alternative dispute resolutions have been gaining popularity in
Bangladesh in the recent years due to the same consuming less time to settle
disputes in contrast with courts, low costs and the flexibility and control these
allow to parties to a dispute.

Mediation

In mediation, a neutral third party is appointed by the parties to a dispute who
assist them in reaching a satisfactory settlement through effective dialogue
and negotiation. Mediation is confidential in nature. Once a settlement is
reached, the terms of the same is recorded in an agreement between the
parties. If, however, the parties to a dispute are unable to reach a settlement,
the parties may opt for litigation.

Arbitration

Arbitration has been one of the most preferred ADR modalities for amicably
resolving disputes between parties. Arbitration allows the parties to submit
their disputes to an independent and impartial arbitrator who decides the
same and such decision becomes binding on the parties. Arbitration can be
‘institutional or ‘ad hoc’ and institutions like Bangladesh International
Arbitration Centre (BIAC) and others chambers such as Bangladesh Interna-
tional Mediation Society (BIMS), Bangladesh Council for Arbitration (BCA)
of the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry
(FBCCI), Bangladesh International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in Bangla-
desh are engaged in offering institutional arbitration services as well.

In order to submit a dispute to arbitration, it is necessary that parties have a
valid arbitration clause in the pre-existing legal instrument which binds them
or they may have a separate arbitration agreement between them. With regard
to the place, venue, language, procedural/evidentiary rules and number of
arbitrators to be involved in the process of arbitration, the parties have the
liberty to decide on the same. Appointment of arbitrators may be challenged
by any party on the grounds of lack of impartiality, independence and so forth.
An arbitral award made by the arbitral tribunal is final and binding on both
the parties, although it can further be challenged in the appropriate court of
law in limited cases e.g. if the proper procedure of arbitration is not followed.
Arbitration brings about varying advantages to the parties such as reduced
cost, time, omission of a technically obscure process, hurdles which are
inevitably faced by people who commence litigation.

| Alternative Dispute Resolution

Enforcement of foreign arbitral award:

Section 45 of the Arbitration Act 2001 states that any foreign award which
would be enforceable shall be treated as binding on the parties between whom
it was made, and may accordingly be relied upon by those parties by way of
defence, set-off or otherwise in any legal proceedings in Bangladesh. Please
note that a foreign arbitral award shall, on the application being made to court
by any party, be enforced by execution by the court under the Code of Civil
Procedure 1908, in the same manner as if it were a decree (a decision) of the
court under section 45(1)(b) of the Act. However, Section 46 of the Arbitra-
tion Act, 2001 also provides certain grounds for refusing recognition or execu-
tion of foreign arbitral award. In addition, under Section 48 of the Act, appeals
shall lie to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of Bangladesh for
court orders such as setting aside or refusing to set aside under Section 42(1),
refuse to enforce the arbitral award under Section 44 and refusing to recognize
or enforce any foreign arbitral award under Section 45 of the Act.

QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework |

59

—+¢e—_

COURT SYSTEM IN
BANGLADESH (CIVIL)


The courts in Bangladesh possess jurisdiction over matters only to the extent
granted to them by the Constitution of Bangladesh or any other legislation.
The Supreme Court of Bangladesh is bifurcated into two divisions, namely the
Appellate Division and the High Court Division. It is the apex court of the
country. The Appellate Division hears and determines appeals from
judgments, decrees, orders or sentences of the High Court Division. Whereas,
the High Court Division has original, appellate and other jurisdictions,
powers and functions as are conferred by the Constitution and other laws of
Bangladesh.

The District Judge Court/ Additional District Judge Court mainly has
appellate jurisdiction, 1.6. the initial cases are not mainly filed in these courts.
However, The District Judge Court/ Additional District Judge Court's pecuni-
ary jurisdiction in relation to appeal is limited to suites where the total value
of the suit does not exceed BDT 5,00,00,000. Anything beyond such value,
falls under the appellate jurisdiction of the High Court Division. On the other
and, subordinate courts of District Judge Court/ Additional District Judge, as
rovided in the table below, have the original jurisdiction only.

The following table displays a brief of the pecuniary jurisdiction of the High
Court’s subordinate civil courts in Bangladesh:

Civil Courts Appellate/Original

Pecuniary Jurisdiction
Jurisdiction ary J

District Judge Court/Additional

District Judge Court Appellate Jurisdiction] Up to BDT 5,00,00,000

Joint District Judge Court Original Jurisdiction | BDT 25,000,001-Unlimited

Senior Assistant Judge Court | Original Jurisdiction | BDT 15,000,001-25,000,000

Assistant Judge Court Original Jurisdiction BDT 0-15,000,000

Essentially, the Court of Joint District Judge, Senior Assistant Judge and
Assistant Judge are Courts of first instance with powers, functions and
jurisdiction relating to subject matter, territory and pecuniary value
determined by or under statutes. The remaining two are generally subordinate
courts of Appeal in Civil matters. However, the Court of District Judge
functions, to a limited extent, as a Court of first instance.

There are other specialized courts and tribunals which are established under
the provisions of different statues. For instances, Labour Courts are
established under the Bangladesh Labour Act 2006 and Environment Courts
are established under the Environment Court Act, 2010.

Court System In Bangladesh (Civil) |

61

০,

SOME IMPORTANT
LEGISLATIONS &
AUTHORITIES


SOME IMPORTANT LEGISLATIONS:

e Arbitration Act, 2001

e Bangladesh Labour Act, 2006

e Bangladesh EPZ Labour Act, 2019

০ Code of Civil Procedure, 1908

০ Companies Act, 1994

e Contract Act, 1872

(6 Consumer Protection Act, 2009

e Competition Act, 2012

e Customs Act, 1969

০ Cyber Security Act, 2023

e Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1947
e Income Tax Act, 2023

e Information and Communication Technology Act, 2008
e VAT and Supplementary Duties Act, 2012
e One Stop Services Act, 2018

Sede deddeddededegsese

SOME IMPORTANT AUTHORITIES & ORGANIZATIONS:

» Bangladesh Bank (BB): Foreign exchange, banking etc.
ttps://www.bb.org.bd/]

» — Chief Inspector of Labour: OHS and employment.
ttp://www.dife.gov.bd/ ]

» National Board of Revenue (NBR): Income tax, VAT, customs etc.
https://nbr.gov.bd/
» _ Registrar of Joint Stock Companies and Firms (RJSC): Company Registrar.
ttps://roc.gov.bd/]
» Bangladesh Investment Development Authority (BIDA): Foreign Direct
» Investment, Work Permit, Branch/liaison office etc.

ttps://bida.gov.bd/
» Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority (BEPZA) [EPZ]
ttps://www.bepza.gov.bd/]

» Bangladesh Economic Zone Authority
ttps://www.beza.gov.bd/]

» Bangladesh High-tech Park Authority

ttps://bhtpa.gov.bd/]

» Directorate of National Consumers’ Rights Protection
ttps://dncrp.portal.gov.bd/]

» Bangladesh Competition Commission

ttp://www.ccb.gov.bd/]

» Information Commission

ttp://www.infocom.gov.bd/]

» Foreign Investors' Chamber Of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
ttps://www.ficci.org.bd/]

» Dhaka Stock Exchange PLC [https://www.dsebd.org/]

» Chittagong Stock Exchange PLC [https://www.cse.com.bd/]

Some Important Legislations & Authorities | 63

64

LEGAL COUNSEL: Excellence in Corporate Legal Services

LEGAL COUNSEL is a premier law firm in Bangladesh, headquartered in the
capital city of Dhaka with a branch office in the bustling port city of Chatto-
gram. With an unwavering commitment to professionalism, efficiency, and
innovative problem-solving, Legal Counsel has built a reputation for deliver-
ing exceptional legal solutions across a wide spectrum of practice areas. The
firm’s extensive network of allied law firms worldwide enables it to effectively
handle complex cross-border legal matters and transactions.

Since its inception, Legal Counsel has been a trusted legal partner for Bangla-
desh’s corporate sector, assisting numerous foreign investors and multination-
al corporations (MNCs) in establishing their presence in the country. The firm
has played a pivotal role in structuring and formalizing the legal entities of
hundreds of global companies, ensuring their operations align with local
regulations while meeting their strategic business goals. Legal Counsel
currently advises over 250 corporate clients on a broad range of legal matters,
including foreign direct investment (FDI), corporate restructuring, contract
management, company law, IP, property and real estate laws, employment laws
including expatriate work permits, corporate-related criminal law and dispute
resolution through negotiation, mediation, arbitration and litigation.

With over a decade of experience working with some of the world’s leading
MNCs, Legal Counsel has developed a profound understanding of corporate
expectations, compliance requirements, and the fast-paced nature of globa
business operations. The firm is well-versed in responding to urgent legal
challenges, whether arising from regulatory shifts, business disruptions, or
unforeseen local or global events. Its sector-specific expertise and proactive
approach have earned it numerous awards from both local and internationa
institutions and legal ranking bodies.

Beyond its corporate practice, Legal Counsel is deeply committed to socia
responsibility. The firm actively contributes to community development
through well-structured pro-bono initiatives, reinforcing its dedication to
ethical legal practice and societal progress.

As the legal and regulatory landscape continues to evolve, Legal Counsel
remains at the forefront, offering strategic, solution-driven legal services. By
combining deep industry knowledge with a dynamic, client-focuse
approach, the firm continues to be a trusted advisor for businesses navigating
the complexities of the modern legal environment.

| QUEST : Foreign Investment in Bangladesh : The Legal Framework

Foreign Investment in Bangladesh:
The Legal Framework

Dhaka Office

Momtaz Vision (Suite - B4, Level 2), House-11/A Road-99,
Gulshan-2, Dhaka-1212, Bangladesh

Chattogram Office

World Trade Centre (Suite _ 4, Level 3), 102-103
Agrabad C/A, Chattogram 4100, Bangladesh

info@legalcounselbd.com

www.legalcounselbd.com


