Mahbub
& Company

ARRISTERS, A

ONE STOP
SERVICE (BIDA}
RULES 2020

A NEW BEGINNING


One-Stop Service (Bangladesh Investment Development Authority) Rules
2020

The Government of Bangladesh has formulated "One-Stop Service (Bangladesh Investment
Development Authority) Rules, 2020. These Rules will be applicable to all services pertaining to
investment. Under the Rules, Central One Stop Service Authority and Regional One Stop Service
Centers will be constituted.

Central One Stop Service Authority will have the following responsibilities:

Formulating standard operating procedures to dispense services in accordance with One
Stop Service method;

Consulting and assisting the applicants;

Providing necessary advice and directives to Regional One Stop Service Center and Focal
Point;

Determining. , controllling, supervising and observing the activities of Regional One Stop
Service Center;

Monitoring the progress of applications, and to take steps for unsettled applications;
Taking necessary steps to ensure due completion of the services;

Constituting the One Stop Service Observance Cell and determining its duties and
responsibilities;

In order to provide One Stop Services to other places except BIDA Head Office, it will form Regional
One Stop Service Center as well. The Regional One Stop Service Center will have more or less the
same functions as the Central One Stop Service Authority.

Depending on necessities of the Central One Stop Service Authority or Regional One Stop Service
Center, the concerned service provider, i.e. City Corporation or Registrar of Joint Stock Companies &
Firms (RJSC) or any other licensing office will determine Focal Point. The functions of the Focal Point
will be as follows:

Focal points will dispose of the applications within a fixed time.Focal points will initiate its
activities based on affidavit of the applicants, despite having lack of information or
documents. Provided that, after receiving the desired information or documents,
disposing of that such applications will not exceed the period prescribed in the schedule.
After satisfaction, focal points will transmit the permission letter to the applicant through one-
stop service portal or letter.

If any application is cancelled then the applicant will be able to reapply within 15 days for a
review.

Central One Stop Service Authority will formulate and ensure availability of all the forms in regard to
One Stop Service. It will also take necessary measures to update and exhibit all the information in a
conspicious place.

Submission and processing of One Stop Service Facility Forms-

০ Every applicant will need to register first and then to log in into the One Stop Service
Portal, to avail of the facilities. Provided that, if accessing the portal is not possible
then the manual submission will be acceptable;

ahbub
8 Company)

০ Relevant information, documents and fees (if any) should be submitted therewith
the application;

০ Applicant should affirm that all the information is true and correct;

০ Before availing of any facility, the applicant should submit the fees of the same
electronically and should mention regarding that deposition in the application form.
Provided that, if electronic transfer is not feasible then fees should be submitted as
per the recommendation of Central One Stop Service Authority or Regional One Stop
Service Center.

Central One-Stop Service Authority or Regional One-Stop Service Center will be able to establish a
One Stop Service help desk to dispense One Stop Service information and advice.

The following Schedule lists the services related to business along with the name of the
service providers and the timeframe to receive the service.

SCHEDULE
Fixed
Sl Time
Service Name Service Provider
No. (Working
Day)
City corporation/
1 | Trade License Municipality Office/ 01
Union Porishod
2 | Company Registration
a. Name clearance 01
b. Certificate of incorporation 01
c. Certificate of commencement of business 01
d. Approval of Article of Associtation 03
Registrar of Joint Stock
e. Approval of Memorandum of Association 03
Companies & Firms
f. Share transfer 07
(RJSC)
g. Amendment of Memorandum/ Articles of
07
Association
h. Change of director 07
i. Enhancement of authorized capital 03
3 | Registration of land
a. Instrument of land purchase/ registration of
Registration office and
agreement of lease/ bayna_ instrument/ 01
all sub-registry offices
registration of power of attorney for land

১৪

b. Delivery of duplicate copy of registered
03
instrument
Relevant sub-district
Mutation 28
land office
Services of BIDA
a. Industry registration 01
b. Permission letter to establish branch, liaison | Bangladesh Investment
15
and commercial office Development Authority
c. Recommendation of resident/non-resident (BIDA)
01
visa/ visa on arrival (industry)
d. Recommendation of resident/ non resident
01
visa (commercial)
e. Approval of new work permit (industry) 03
f. Approval of new work permit (commercial) 16
g. Renewal of work permit (industry) 03
h. Renewal of work permit (commercial) 16
i. Recommendation of Import Registration
10
Certificate for Industry
j. Recommendation for import permit 01
k. Providing certificate to import capital
01
machineries
|. Recommendation for import of controlled
01
product
m. Amendment of registration 01
n. Granting permission to provide foreign
07
remittance
Bangladesh Embassies,
Delivering visas of different classes recommended by
Ministry of Foreign 07
BIDA
Affairs
Extension of period of resident/ non resident visas
a. Extension of tenure of E- Visa 07
Department of
b. Extension of tenure of E1 visa 07
Immigration and
c. Extension of tenure of Pl visa 07
Passport
Extension of tenure of A3 visa 07

১


8 | Change of visa class/ extension of period and security clearance

a. Extension of visa period including change of Security Service
visa class (on receipt of approval from BIDA/ Division, Ministry of 07
Security clearance/ SB report) Home Affairs
b. Submission of report from Special Branch (SB)
for visa Special Branch (SB), *
c. Submission of report from SB for security Bangladesh Police
clearance ie
d. Submission of report from NSI for security National Security
clearance Intelligence (NSI) ১০
Security Service
e. Issuance of security clearance for renewal of
Division, Ministry of 03
visa/ work permit (on receipt of report)
Home Affairs
9 | Services by Ministry of Commerce and its subsidiaries
a. Rendering industry IRC Office of the Chief 03
b. Sample import/ export permission Controller of Imports 03
c. Permission to import controlled products and Exports 03

a. Bangladesh
Investment
Development

Authority (BIDA) a. 01

10 | Land acquisition b. Deputy b. 90
Commissioner's c. 60
Office (DC
Office)

c. Ministry of Land

11 | Environmental Clearance letter

Green (Environmental) 07

Orange — A (Environmental) 07

Orange — A (Location-wise) 15
Department of

Orange — B (Environmental) 20
Environment

Orange — B (Location-wise) 21

Red (Environmental) 30

Red (Location-wise) 45


EIA approval 30
12 | Renewal of Environmental Clearance Letter
Green (Environmental) 07
Orange — A (Environmental) Department of 07
Orange — B (Environmental) Environment 20
Red (Environmental) 30
13 | Building Construction
a. Clearance letter for land use RAJUK, Chittagong 15
b. Provision of clearance letter for special projects | Development Authority, 15
c. Field inspection City Corporation, 03
d. Approval of building construction Municipality, Union 20
e. Certificate of residence or use Porishod 07
14 | Electricity connection
a. Technical inspection and completion of survey 05
b. Allocation of power load Electricity Division and 10
c. Issuance of demand note its subsidiaries 02
d. Money deposition distributing electricity 04
e. Delivery of meter and electricity connection 07
Gas supplying agencies
15 | Approval of gas connection under Energy & Mineral 30
Resources Division
Territorial WASA, City
16 | Water connection and sewerage Corporation and, 07
Municipality
Bangladesh
17 | Telephone and internet connection Telecommunications 03
Company Limited (BTCL)
18 | Firefighting services and clearance letter
a. Approval of fire security and planning 30
b. Issuance of license for fire security (including Department of Fire bp

final inspection)

c. Renewal of fire security license

Service and Civil

Defence

15


19

Explosives License

a. Issuance of explosive license Department of 21
b. Renewal of explosive license Explosives 21
20 | Factory license
a. Approval of license 15
Department of Factories
b. Approval of machine layout plan for factories 10
and Establishment
c. License renewal and amendment 10
21 | Setting up boilers
a. Non-objection certificate to import boilers 03
b. Registration of boiler and issuance of certificate Office of the Chief 14
c. Renewal of boiler certificate (with inspection) Inspector of Boiler 21
d. Change of owner (Name/ address) 15
22 | Regarding NBR
a. TIN registration National Board of 01
b. VAT registration Revenue (NBR) 01
c. BIN Number 01
d. Bond license 15
e. Customs clearance letter 01
f. Duty/ tax return 15
g. Utilization permit (UP) 03
Bangladesh Export
23 | Certificate of origin Promotion Bureau, 02
Chamber of Commerce
Bangladesh Garment
Manufacturers and
24 | Utilization Declaration 02
Exporters Association
(BGMEA)
Bangladesh Standards
25 | Issuance of Mark license (with inspection) and Testing Institution, 22
Ministry of Industries
26 | Services by Bangladesh Bank
a. Permission to borrow term loans in foreign 15

currency from Off-Shore Banking Unit (OBU) by

private industrial projects which obtained

Bangladesh Bank

Mahbub

registration from BIDA

b. Notification of facts relevant to issuance of
shares/ transfer in favor of from residents to
non-residents, non-residents to residents and 10
non-residents to non-residents in unlisted

companies In Stock Exchange

c. Repatriation of profit and dividend 10
d. Permission pertaining to sending consultancy

fees that are not included in general priorities 3
e. Remittance of money for unlisted companies in

Stock Exchange; money acquired by selling

shares held by non-residents to residents and 15

money residue in a proportionate rate in

respect of wound up of companies.

Authored by Wahid Sadiq Khan, Associate; Compiled by Ashfaqul Islam, Research
Associate

Disclaimer: BIDA Rules 2020 is originally in Bangla and the unofficial translation of the Rules in this Article
was carried out by Mahbub & Company. Original Rules can be found here.

| Mahbub
{& Company,


Mahbub & Company

Mahbub & Company is a full-service law
firm in Bangladesh with industry-leading
expertise in Dispute Resolution,
Employment, Corporate/M&A, International
Trade & Shipping, IP and Real Estate.

All Rights Reserved.

CONTACT US

Flat E1, House 37, Road 12/A
Dhanmondi, Dhaka - 1209

=) contact@mahubub-law.com
http://www.mahbub-law.com
@ +88-01725-150912


